HELLO EVERYONE AND GOOD
AFTERNOON TO THIS MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES.
>> MY NAME IS DAMON.
I'M SO EXCITED TO HAVE ALL
OF YOU ON WITH US THIS
AFTERNOON.
>> SO I'M CALLING THIS MEETING
TO ORDER HERE AND WE'LL GO
AHEAD AND START WITH ROLL CALL.
JUST SO YOU KNOW, KENNEDY IS
GOING TO GO AROUND.
SHE WILL CALL YOUR NAME
VERBALLY AND AND IF YOU ARE
PRESENT IF YOU COULD THEN YOU
STATE YOUR NAME, STATE YOUR
POSITION AND WHERE YOU ARE
COMING FROM TODAY THAT WOULD BE
GREAT.
KENNEDY.
OK, SO FAROLE KAHRIZAK DAMON
HELLO EVERYONE.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON.
I AM ZACH DAMON.
I'M THE CHAIRMAN OF THE ANN
ARBOR COMMISSION AND DISABILITY
ISSUES.
I'M COMING TO YOU FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
WASHTENAW COUNTY JUST WANTED TO
MAKE SURE CANDY, DO WE HAVE
CLOSED CAPTIONS ON YOU CAN TURN
THEM ON.
YES.
THANK YOU.
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
>> OK, VICE CHAIR CHELATE Q
WORD FIVE A.M. THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER BROZAK GOOD
AFTERNOON KATHLEEN BOZAK
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
KATHLEEN MISSIONER SOLOMON
MATTHEW SOLOMON COMMISSIONER
FIRST WARD ANN ARBOR WASHTENAW
COUNTY USSI THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS
HERE.
>> OK COMMISSIONER POSTER HERE
COMMISSIONER PASSAGE WOULD NOT
BE HERE TODAY COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE AFTERNOON
COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE CALLING
IN FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU.
AND COUNCIL MEMBER EDWIN.
HI EVERYONE.
THIS IS A COUNCIL CALLING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
>> DID WE DID WE ANNOUNCE TO
THE NEW COMMISSIONERS AS WELL?
>> SORRY KENNEDY I DIDN'T HEAR
THEM IN THE ROLL CALL.
>> I AM SO SORRY COMMISSIONER
CHAMBERS.
>> HELLO, I'M LINA CHAMBERS
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN AND COMMISSIONER
BACKER'S.
YES, HELLO COMMISSIONER PACARD
COMING FROM YPSILANTI AREA.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ROLL CALL IS IS COMPLETE UH
,THANK YOU.
I'M MOVING ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT
.
I DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON THE LINE
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT TODAY?
>> THIS TIME WE HAVE NO ONE ON
THE LINE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH KENNEDY.
UM, SO FIRST AS SINCE WE MOVE
FORWARD TO THE APPROVAL
OF AGENDA, I WOULD LIKE I JUST
WANTED TO MENTION I JUST ON THE
LINE TO EVERYONE COUNCIL MEMBER
I DOES HAVE TO TO LEAVE EARLY
SO I WAS HOPING TO MAKE A QUICK
AND QUICK ADJUSTMENT TO THE
AGENDA TODAY IF THAT'S OK WITH
EVERYONE I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
THE THE COUNCIL PRESENTATION
OF COUNCIL MEMBER EDWYN UP ON
THE AGENDA BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO
LEAVE EARLY SO I WOULD LIKE TO
TO HAVE A TO MOVE THAT UP IF
POSSIBLE I'D MOVE THAT WE MOVE
COUNCILWOMAN ONE UP ON THE
AGENDA SO WE CAN SHE CAN GET
DONE AND BE ON OUR WAY.
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE IT UP AS
THE FIRST PRESENTATION TODAY IF
POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU.
>> THEIR SECOND I SECOND OK
>> YEP.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. RATCLIFFE SECONDS
>> YEP.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF MOVING UP
THANK YOU MR. RATCLIFFE SECONDS
THE COUNCIL LIAISON REPORT TO
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF MOVING UP
THE FIRST PRESENTATION TODAY
THE COUNCIL LIAISON REPORT TO
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY AY AY AY
THE FIRST PRESENTATION TODAY
AY AY AY OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY AY AY AY
YOU GUYS I DO APPRECIATE IT.
AY AY AY OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH
OK SO NOW THAT WE HAVE AT A NEW
YOU GUYS I DO APPRECIATE IT.
AGENDA I'D LIKE TO NOW MOVE TO
OK SO NOW THAT WE HAVE AT A NEW
APPROVE TODAY'S ADJUSTED
AGENDA I'D LIKE TO NOW MOVE TO
AGENDA.
APPROVE TODAY'S ADJUSTED
SO IS THERE A MOTION TO APPROVE
AGENDA.
TODAY'S UPDATED AGENDA?
SO IS THERE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THIS IS KATHLEEN.
TODAY'S UPDATED AGENDA?
I'LL MOVE TO I WILL MOVE TO
THIS IS KATHLEEN.
APPROVE OF THE AGENDA.
I'LL MOVE TO I WILL MOVE TO
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH,
APPROVE OF THE AGENDA.
KATHLEEN.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH,
I DO APPRECIATE THAT KATHLEEN
KATHLEEN.
HAS MOVED TO APPROVE.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT KATHLEEN
LARRY HAS RECANTED ALL IN FAVOR
HAS MOVED TO APPROVE.
OF APPROVING THE ADJUSTED
LARRY HAS RECANTED ALL IN FAVOR
AGENDA FOR TODAY PLEASE ON MUTE
OF APPROVING THE ADJUSTED
AND SAY I THANK YOU.
AGENDA FOR TODAY PLEASE ON MUTE
>> I DO APPRECIATE THAT.
AND SAY I THANK YOU.
OK, NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
>> I DO APPRECIATE THAT.
OF THE MINUTES FROM SEPTEMBER
OK, NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
THAT HAS BEEN INCLUDED HERE
OF THE MINUTES FROM SEPTEMBER
WITHIN OUR AGENDA WHICH HAS
THAT HAS BEEN INCLUDED HERE
BEEN SENT OUT TO ANYONE.
WITHIN OUR AGENDA WHICH HAS
I JUST WANTED TO OPEN TO
BEEN SENT OUT TO ANYONE.
APPROVAL OR IF ANYONE HAD ANY
I JUST WANTED TO OPEN TO
QUESTIONS EDITS OR ANYTHING
APPROVAL OR IF ANYONE HAD ANY
LIKE THAT FROM THE SEPTEMBER
QUESTIONS EDITS OR ANYTHING
MEETING MINUTES YOU CAN SPEAK
LIKE THAT FROM THE SEPTEMBER
ABOUT THAT NOW OR
IS THERE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
FROM SEPTEMBER?
>> OK, I THINK OF GO AHEAD AND
HAVE TO ACCEPT APPROVED MINUTES
FROM SEPTEMBER.
>> OK, I WILL SECOND THAT ALL
IN FAVOR OF APPROVING THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM SEPTEMBER.
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT I NEXT I WANTED TO
JUST DO A QUICK INTRODUCTION
BEFORE OUR SPECIAL
PRESENTATIONS I WANTED TO HAVE
A NEW COMMISSION CANDIDATE DO
AN INTRODUCTION AND I WANTED TO
WELCOME THEM.
I KNOW OUR RECRUITMENT
COMMITTEE AND OUR RECRUITMENT
CHAIR HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK WITH THIS COMMUNITY
MEMBER AND REVIEW THEIR
APPLICATION.
SO AT THIS POINT I WANTED TO
OPEN THE FLOOR FOR A COUPLE
OF MINUTES TO MISS SONIA
ROMERO.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YES.
IF YOU COULD IF YOU COULD JUST
GIVE US A YOU KNOW, BRIEF
STATEMENT OF AGAIN, YOU KNOW,
WHY YOU'VE APPLIED TO THE
COMMISSION WHAT YOUR MOTIVATION
IS TO HELP THE COMMISSION AND
YOU KNOW, IF YOU WERE TO BE
APPROVED WHAT YOU HOPE TO TO DO
ON THE COMMISSION THANKS.
I APPLIED TO THE COMMISSION
BECAUSE I I'VE BEEN I'VE HAD A
PROGRESSIVE DISABILITY AND AT
THIS POINT I'M PRETTY MUCH IN A
WHEELCHAIR AND I LEAVE THE HOME
AND IT GOT ME INTERESTED IN
CHALLENGES THAT OTHER PEOPLE
FACE.
I'M INTERESTED IN EXPLORING
WAYS THAT WE COULD IMPROVE
ACCESS IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND HELPING IN ANY WAY I CAN
AND I'M INTERESTED TO HEAR WHAT
PEOPLE WITH OTHER DISABILITIES
FACE ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION THIS TIME I'M
ISHMAIL.
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO STICK FOR
THE FULL MEETING.
I JUST WANTED YOU TO INTRODUCE
YOURSELF TO THE FULL COMMISSION
AGAIN TALK ABOUT YOUR
BACKGROUND, WHAT YOU DID AND
YOUR MOTIVATION.
SO AT THIS POINT YOU KNOW YOU
ARE FREE TO GO.
>> I CAN GIVE BEFORE YOU GO I
THINK IT'D BE NICE TO OPEN A
FLOOR UP TO THE COMMISSIONERS
IF THEY WANT TO ASK ANY
QUESTIONS.
YEAH.
DID ANY OF THANK YOU KENNEDY
THEN ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR SONIA AT THIS
TIME DEAFLY I DON'T ACTUALLY
HAVE A QUESTION.
>> I JUST WANTED TO EXPAND ON
WHAT'S JUST SAID AND SAY I
WOULD WELCOME YOU TO STAY IF
YOU'D LIKE TO SEE HOW WE
CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS.
I DO.
I SUPPOSE I HAVE A QUESTION HOW
LONG HAVE YOU BEEN IN THE ANN
ARBOR AREA AND YOU MENTIONED
THAT YOU HAD A RECENT CHANGE IN
MOBILITY ISSUES AND IN YOUR
STRUGGLES BEING A WHEELCHAIR
USER OUTSIDE OF THE HOME.
I I THINK THAT THAT'S GOING TO
BRING A WEALTH OF KNOWLEDGE TO
OUR COMMISSION AND HELP US OUT.
BUT I'M WONDERING IF YOU COULD
EXPAND A LITTLE BIT ON SOME
OF THE CHALLENGES THAT YOU HAVE
DIRECTLY FACED TO HER AND I'M
HAPPY TO STAY FOR THE REST
OF THE MEETING OF INTERESTED IN
I'VE GOT THE AGENDA UP AND I'M
INTERESTED IN HOW YOU DO
BUSINESS.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, I HAVE A PROGRESSIVE
SPASTIC ATAXIA SO I HAVE
GRADUALLY LOST BALANCE.
I STILL DO USE A WALKER AND MY
HOME BUT TO TRAVEL ANY DISTANCE
I NEED A WHEELCHAIR AND SO I'VE
PROGRESSED TO MORE AND MORE
STABLE WALKERS AND I'M HOPING
TO HAVE A POWER CHAIR SOON AND
IT'S REALLY IT'S REALLY
INTERESTING EXPERIENCING SOCI
AND THE ENVIRONMENT FROM A
WHEELCHAIR.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE REALLY
UNDERSTANDS WHAT IT'S LIKE
UNTIL UNTIL THEY'RE THERE THE
WAY PEOPLE INTERACT WITH YOU
AND THE BARRIERS THAT I FIND
THAT ARE YOU KNOW, IF ANYONE
HAD EXPERIENCED THESE BARRIERS
THEY WOULDN'T PUT THEM UP.
SOMETIMES THAT'S EGREGIOUS THE
WAY BUSINESSES ALTER THE
ENVIRONMENT WHERE SOMETIMES
THERE'S A RAMP AND THEY HAVE
DECORATION AND IN THE RAMP SO
THAT THE RAMP IS OBSTRUCTED.
SO I'VE BEEN VERY INTERESTED IN
THAT AND POSSIBLY RAISING
AWARENESS IN THE BUILDING
COMMUNITY, IN THE SERVICE
COMMUNITY AND RESTAURANTS AND
ESTABLISHMENTS LIKE THAT TO
JUST MAKE THEM AWARE OF HOW HOW
MANY BARRIERS THERE ARE AND TO
PLEASE NOT ADD MORE.
LET'S SEE.
I GUESS I'LL WAIT FOR ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR SONY AT THIS TIME.
JUST THANK YOU FOR SHARING.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL AND I WOULD LIKE TO
MENTION THOUGH JUST TO
PIGGYBACK OFF OF YOU KNOW, THE
OBSERVATION THAT'S COMPLETELY
FINE.
BUT IF IF WE DO IF WE DID VOTE
TODAY WE WOULD HAVE TO HAVE
SONIYA YOU AS THE CANDIDATE OFF
THE CALL, SIR.
WE LIKE THAT VOTE.
SURE.
JUST LET ME KNOW.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHTY.
>> THANK YOU SO NOW I'D LIKE TO
MOVE TO THE SPECIAL
PRESENTATIONS PORTION OF OUR
AGENDA TODAY AND MOVE TO OUR
COUNCIL LIAISON COUNCIL MEMBER
EDWYN FOR THE CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH AND THANKS
FOR YOUR WILLINGNESS TO MOVE ME
TO THE START OF THE AGENDA.
I'VE BEEN FEELING UNDER THE
WEATHER IT'S KIND OF GETTING
WORSE SO I APPRECIATE IT AND I
MAY ACTUALLY HAVE TO LOG OFF A
LITTLE BIT EARLY BECAUSE I JUST
FEEL LIKE MY HEAD IS IN YOUR
SINUSES ARE ALL BLOCKED UP.
>> WELL IN BULLHEAD KIND
OF THING.
BUT I WANT TO START OFF WITH
SAY THAT I TALKED AT THE
DISABILITY NETWORK'S EVENT THIS
MORNING.
KATHLEEN MOSADDEQ WAS THERE AND
ALSO OUR NEW COMMISSIONER I
THINK HIS ROB YES.
ROB PACKARD WAS THERE AND IT
WAS A REALLY GREAT CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE NEED FOR MORE
ACCESSIBLE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN OUR CITY AND JUST GENERALLY
IN THE NATION.
SO IT WAS IT WAS A REALLY GOOD
DISCUSSION AND ONE OF THE
THINGS I MENTIONED THERE THAT
I'D LIKE TO SHARE WITH ALL
OF YOU IS MY ORGANIZATION
DETROIT DISABILITY POWER HELP
TO CREATE A LIST OF ALL
PROPERTIES IN DETROIT, ALL
RENTAL PROPERTIES AND HOW
ACCESSIBLE THEY ARE AND IT'S
OPEN TO ALL DIFFERENT HOUSING
PROVIDERS TO OPEN TO ANYONE TO
CALL DETROIT HOME CONNECT AND
I'VE BEEN SPEAKING TO JENNIFER
HALL, THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF ANN ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
ABOUT HOW DO WE DO THAT HERE IN
ONE OF THE IMPORTANT THINGS SHE
RAISED AS YOU KNOW, IF HOW WILL
WE INCLUDE PROPERTY IN THE
PRIVATE SECTOR?
HOW WILL WE COMPARE LANDLORDS
TO OR FOR ACCESSIBILITY?
SO IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO CONTINUE TALKING
ABOUT.
I'M GOING TO HAVE AN INTERNAL
MEETING WITH SOME CITY STAFF
AND THEN HOPEFULLY ALSO
EVENTUALLY INVOLVE SOME OF THE
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS TO
ACTUALLY PROVIDE THESE HOUSING
PLACEMENT SERVICES.
KATHLEEN, IS THERE ANYTHING
THAT YOU WANT TO ADD TO THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE TALK
THIS MORNING OR ROB, I THOUGHT
IT WAS A REALLY IMPORTANT
CONVERSATION.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS RECORDED
.
DEKALB FROM THE DISABILITY
WASHTENAW COLEMAN LIVINGSTON IS
THE ONE WHO PUT IT ON IF IS
AVAILABLE PERHAPS AT ISSUE WE
COULD ASK THEM IF THEY COULD
SHARE IT WITH THE COMMISSION TO
BE ABLE TO WATCH.
ONE OF THE THINGS I WAS GOING
TO BRING UP DURING NEW BUSINESS
IS WE DISCUSSED HOW IT EVER
HAPPENS IN MOST COMMUNITIES BUT
HERE IN ANN ARBOR WE'RE VERY
SILOED IN TERMS OF HOW WE HOW
IS OUR INFORMATION ABOUT
DISABILITY.
SO THAT WAS ALSO A VERY
IMPORTANT CONVERSATION AND IT
WAS IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THERE WERE OVER FORTY FIVE
PEOPLE IN ATTENDANCE.
SO THAT ALSO GIVES ME HOPE ON
THIS DISCUSSION ABOUT HOUSING
AND THE DISABILITY COMMUNITY.
YEAH, THANK YOU, KATHLEEN.
ROB, DO YOU WANT TO SHARE
ANYTHING AS WELL ABOUT THIS
MORNING
FORWARD YOU CAN YOU
HEAR ME OK NOW WE CAN ROB YOU
BURKLE'S BEGINNING SO IF YOU
COULD RESTART TREATMENT.
THANK YOU.
YES IT REALLY WAS A GREAT
CONVERSATION.
SOME GREAT IDEAS CAME FORWARD
AND I LOVE THE IDEA OF FINDING
WAYS TO HELP PEOPLE DISCOVER
ACCESSIBLE HOUSING THE
CONFUSION OF HOW TO FIND PLACES
THAT ARE CLOSE TO PUBLIC
TRANSIT AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO I THINK IT WAS JUST A GREAT
STEP FORWARD AND BREAKING
THROUGH THOSE BARRIERS LIKE YOU
SAID.
THANK YOU ROB EDITOR I THINK
WHAT ARE THE THINGS THAT I DID
GET TO SAY BUT I HOPE THAT
WHENEVER WE TALK ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MY ALWAYS
USING THE WORD ACCESSIBLE WITH
IT RIGHT.
ALL AFFORDABLE HOUSING SHOULD
BE ACCESSIBLE BUT THEN ALSO
REMEMBERING THAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES DESERVE HOUSING AT
ALL DIFFERENT PRICE POINTS.
>> YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE TO LIVE
IN POVERTY TO GET ACCESSIBLE
HOUSING.
>> RIGHT.
SO IT WAS IT WAS A REALLY GOOD
DISCUSSION AND I'LL KEEP YOU
UPDATED AS I CONTINUE TO WORK
ON THAT ON THAT LIST OF THE
OTHER TODAY WAS FIRST DAY
OF OUR MAY NOT HAVE BEEN
TECHNICALLY THE FIRST DAY BUT
WE DO HAVE A NEW ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR AND SHE WAS IN
ATTENDANCE AT THE MEETING THIS
MORNING WHICH WAS AMAZING AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
HER AND I THINK ONE IDEA THAT I
HAD PREVIOUSLY THAT I REALLY
WANT TO TALK TO A CITY ABOUT IS
THAT WE HAVE SOME SORT
OF DISABILITY I'M SORRY.
THAT'S MY SON WHO JUST GOT BACK
FROM SCHOOL ANYWAY.
>> SO WE'RE WATCHING COCOMO.
HEY NOAH, PLEASE.
I AM ON THE PHONE SO YOU I
FREQUENTLY HEAR POLICIES COME
OUT OF TRANSPORTATION OR
PLANNING AND THEY'RE GOOD
POLICIES.
BUT HOW DO WE MAKE SURE THAT
THERE'S A DISABILITY
PERSPECTIVE WAS PRESENT AND I
KNOW THAT THE NEW COORDINATOR
CAN'T BE EVERYWHERE AT ONCE ALL
THE TIME BUT MAYBE WE COULD
HAVE SOME SORT OF INTERNAL
DISABILITY CHAMPION AND JUST
SOME SORT OF INTERNAL TRAINING
AND EDUCATION PROGRAM MAYBE WE
CALL IT DISABILITY CHAMPIONS
AND WE ALWAYS MAKE SURE ONE
MEMBER OF EVERY COMMISSION HAS
SOME KNOWLEDGE BACKGROUND INTO
DISABILITY BUT ALSO CAN ALERT
KODAI WHEN I DON'T KNOW A NEW
DEVELOPMENT OR SIDEWALK OR
SOMETHING AS WE DISCUSSED OR WE
SHOULD HAVE A SAY INSTEAD OF US
AFTER WE CAN BE A LITTLE BIT
MORE PROACTIVE.
>> I'M GOING TO TALK TO LAURA
ABOUT THAT.
YEAH, COUNCIL MEMBER I THINK
THAT'S A GREAT IDEA.
THE DISABILITY CHAMPION AND
BEING ABLE TO DIRECTLY BE IN
CONTACT WITH OUR ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR WHO I DO SEE IS ON
THE LINE HEARING OUR OUR
MEETING TODAY SO OH THAT'S
GREAT.
YEAH BUT I'M SORRY WE JUST SO
YEAH YEAH IT IS SO SO WE
DECIDED TO HAVE WE JUST HAD A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS BASED UPON
YOUR YOUR INFORMATION SO I'LL
GO TO KATHLEEN FIRST AND THEN
I'LL CALL ON COMMISSIONER
PACKARDS.
>> SO KATHLEEN I JUST WANTED TO
MINE IS MORE OF A PROCEDURAL
QUESTION SO WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
TRACY IS ON THE LINE WITH US
AND I'M WONDERING, ZACK, WHERE
ARE YOU GOING TO TALK MORE
ABOUT THAT DURING YOUR REPORT
AT THE END OR ARE WE GOING TO
TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ACTUALLY FORMALLY INTRODUCE HER
HOWEVER YOU WANT TO DO IT?
>> BUT I'M NOT SEEING IT ON THE
AGENDA.
YES, GREAT QUESTION.
AND I WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO BE
A REPORTING ON THAT DURING MY
CHAIR REPORT SO I HOPE THAT'S
ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN YOU KNOW, I GUESS NOW
THAT IT'S ALREADY OUT OF THE
BAG, I WAS HOPING THAT THIS
PRODUCT COULD ALSO GIVE A
COUPLE OF REMARKS IF IF SHE'S
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
SO BUT THAT THAT WAS MY BIG
UPDATE FOR THE CHAIR REPORT.
SO I WILL BE EXPANDING ON AND
THE PROCESS THAT WENT FORTH IN
SELECTION AND THEN AND THEN
HOPEFULLY MISS BYRD CAN SAY A
FEW WORDS SO HOPEFULLY THAT
ANSWERS YOUR QUESTION KATHLEEN.
OK, COMMISSIONER PACARD.
YES.
I JUST WANTED TO ADD A QUICK
COMMENT THAT ONE OF THE I THINK
ISSUES THAT CAME OUT OF THE
MEETING WAS JUST SORTING
THROUGH THE CONFUSION OF WHO TO
CALL, WHERE TO GO.
I THINK THAT SOME WITH
DISABILITIES HAVE TROUBLE USING
COMPUTERS AND THAT KIND
OF THING.
SO I MEAN I THINK THAT AN EASY
TO ACCESS LIST LIKE WE TALK
ABOUT IS A GREAT IDEA AND
ANYTHING THAT WE CAN DO TO MAKE
IT EASIER FOR PEOPLE SEARCHING
FOR FOR HOUSING TO FIND THE
RESOURCES QUICKLY WITHOUT GOING
THROUGH MONTHS OF CONFUSION AND
ANOTHER POPULATION THAT WAS
MENTIONED IS THE HOMELESS AND
HOW DO WE REACH OUT FIND WAYS
TO GET THEM WHO ARE CHRONICALLY
HOMELESS ESPECIALLY TO HELP
THEM GET OUT OF THAT SITUATION
AND INTO HOUSING?
JUST ANOTHER GOOD POINT I JUST
WANTED TO MENTION FROM THE
MEETING THANKS.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
>> THAT WAS A GREAT OK, GO
AHEAD.
>> NO, I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY
THAT WAS A GREAT POINT.
THANKS FOR THAT.
AND JUST LIKE THE ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR PROCESS TOOK PLACE,
I WILL I WILL YOU ALL WILL BE
HELPING ME DEVELOP THIS LIST
AND I WILL USE YOU AS A
SOUNDING BOARD AS THIS IS BEING
DEVELOPED FIRST I DO WANT TO
BRING IT TO INTERNAL CITY STAFF
AND SEE ABOUT FEASIBILITY BUT
I'LL KEEP YOU ALL UPDATED IF I
COULD JUST I'M JUST GETTING
BACK TO MY NOTES.
OH, THERE WAS AN EMAIL THAT WAS
SENT OUT BY YOU AT THE LAST
KODAI MEETING.
YOU ALL EXPRESSED SOME CONCERNS
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT THE USE
OF SIDEWALKS AND OVERALL
BICYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE AND
MOBILITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND HOW
SOMETIMES PEOPLE DON'T REALLY
KNOW HOW TO SHARE THE PATH
ACCESSIBLY.
RIGHT.
AND IS THERE ANY EDUCATION
HAPPENING IN THE CITY AROUND
THAT?
>> I REACHED OUT TO RAYMOND
HAAS WHO'S THE HEAD
OF TRANSPORTATION WITH THAT
QUESTION AND THEN AT OUR CITY
COUNCIL MEETING OUR LAST ONE WE
HAD A DIDN'T COME AND TALK
ABOUT SIDEWALK GAPS THAT ARE
ACCESSIBLE ACCESSIBILITY
CONCERNS ASIDE WHAT GAPS ARE
BUT SPECIFICALLY A FEW
SIDEWALKS IN THE CITY TURN INTO
STAIRS AND THIS HAS BEEN
COVERED ACTUALLY IN AN ARTICLE
BY UM LIVE IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN
.
BUT THOSE ARE GRAVE
ACCESSIBILITY CONCERNS.
SO I POSED THOSE QUESTIONS TO
RAYMOND AND HE DID RESPOND WITH
SOME ANSWERS.
I DID ASK IF YOU COULD BE HERE
TODAY BUT IT HE WAS NOT
AVAILABLE.
THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
BRIAN STEIGLITZ HAS SAID THAT
IF WE WOULD LIKE ONE OF THE
STAFF TRANSPORTATION OR ROADS
TO COME TO OUR NEXT MEETING,
JUST LET THEM KNOW AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE SO THEY HAVE TIME TO
PREPARE.
AND I THINK BASED UPON WHAT
WE'VE ALL TALKED ABOUT IT WOULD
BE HELPFUL, CORRECT.
OK, THE COUNCIL MEMBER I
BELIEVE WOULD IT BE HELPFUL FOR
THEM TO ATTEND JUST TO FOR THEM
TO REITERATE AGAIN THEIR REPORT
WHICH I MET ALONG AND PROVIDING
THAT INFORMATION.
BUT THEN ALSO IF THERE ARE ANY
OTHER COMMISSIONERS THAT NEED
ADDITIONAL CLARITY, I THINK IT
WOULD PROVIDE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
TO DO THAT AS WELL.
YES.
YEAH, THANK YOU FOR THAT.
AND YOU KNOW, ESSENTIALLY SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT RAYMOND
WROTE AND I'VE ASKED KENNEDY TO
CIRCULATE AN EMAIL ACTUALLY
KENNEDY IF YOU COULD HOLD ON
THAT EMAIL I'M JUST GOING TO I
WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO EMAIL YOU
BACK AND LET YOU KNOW THAT THAT
CITY STAFF RESPONSE WAS ADDED
TO THE AGENDA FOR THIS WEEK.
SO IT IS ACTUALLY UNDER THE
FILE FOR THE SIDEWALK
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUE OF THE
AGENDA.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, KENNEDY.
SO IT SHOULD BE IN YOUR AGENDA
BUT ONE THING I WILL SAY THAT I
NOTICED IN THE RESPONSE IS
ESSENTIALLY YOU KNOW, BIKES ARE
ON THE PATHWAY AND SIDEWALK
REPORTED TO YOU TO FIX SIDEWALK
GAPS.
THEY ARE PRIORITIZED BASED UPON
A MATRIX THAT WAS DEVELOPED BY
CITY STAFF THAT INCLUDES A
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT VARIABLES.
I DIDN'T SEE ACCESSIBLE
ACCESSIBILITY MENTIONED.
I MEAN I'M SURE YOU KNOW, ADA
COMPLIANCE IS TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT BUT ACCESSIBILITY SO
REALLY GOING ABOVE BEYOND ADA
AND JUST THINKING ABOUT YOU
KNOW, PEOPLE WITH MOBILITY
DISABILITIES WILL THEY NOT BE
ABLE TO GET ACROSS THIS AREA?
AND IF THE ANSWER IS YES THEN
IT SHOULD BE ELEVATED IN
PRIORITIZATION.
THAT IS SOMETHING I'M GOING TO
ASK RAYMOND ABOUT AND THEN HE
RESPONDED THAT THE SIDEWALKS
WHICH TURN TO STAIRS THEY'RE
WORKING ON IT.
THEY ARE EXPENSIVE TO FIX AND
THEY HAVE IDENTIFIED ONE OR TWO
THAT CAN BE ADDED TO THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUNDING.
SO IT'S A LARGER POT OF MONEY
THAT WILL HELP TO COVER THE
REDO OF THAT SIDEWALK IF YOU
HAVE TO HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS EMAIL
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS IS ZACH.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS AT THIS TIME.
I DID REVIEW IT AND I WAS
GRATEFUL THAT THEY GAVE A
THOUGHTFUL RESPONSE AND THANK
YOU FOR BRINGING IT TO THEIR
ATTENTION.
I JUST HOPE THAT WE CAN
ENCOURAGE TO HAVE I WOULD SAY
MORE ADEQUATE
WARNING.
I MEAN JUST HAVING A SIGN IN MY
OPINION IS NOT SUFFICIENT IN
TERMS OF YOU KNOW, SOMETHING IS
AS HAZARDOUS.
IS THAT SO I HOPE WE CAN JUST
BRING THAT TO THEIR ATTENTION
AND THEN AND THEN LOOK AT
POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS.
YEAH, THAT'S THE GOOD.
SO YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
SIDEWALK THAT TURNS TO STAIRS.
YES, CORRECT.
MORE THAN THE SIGNS WARNING.
>> I'LL MELT THAT DOWN AND I
THINK KNOW THE OTHER THINGS
WE CAN DO IS BETWEEN NOW AND
OUR NEXT MEETING WHICH I
BELIEVE IS IN DECEMBER.
CORRECT.
IS THAT RIGHT?
I'LL HAVE TO LOOK AT THE DATE.
>> PARDON ME.
I DON'T HAVE IS IN NOVEMBER.
>> YES OK.
IT IS NOVEMBER SO I THINK THAT
WE SHOULD FORMALLY INVITE
RAYMOND AND I'LL MAKE I'LL ASK
AND I THINK BETWEEN NOW THE
NEXT MEETING WE SHOULD REVIEW
THE EMAIL AND ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE FOR
RAYMOND ABOUT SIDEWALK SAFETY,
ABOUT INFRASTRUCTURE, ABOUT
ANYTHING.
NOTE THEM DOWN BUT ALSO PLEASE
SEND THEM TO ME BECAUSE I KNOW
RAYMOND WOULD APPRECIATE HAVING
QUESTIONS IN ADVANCE SO HE CAN
PREPARE ADEQUATELY.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO YEAH, PLEASE SEND THE
QUESTIONS THAT YOU'D LIKE HIM
TO ADDRESS AND I'LL EXTENDED
INVITATION TO OUR NEXT MEETING.
>> SURE, SURE.
AND COUNCIL MEMBER, JUST TO
CLARIFY IS IT OK IF THEY SEND
THE QUESTIONS TO MYSELF KENNEDY
THE COMMISSIONER.
YEAH YOU CAN.
WHY DON'T YOU GO AHEAD AND SEND
THEM TO BOTH AND KENNEDY AND
THEN KENNEDY MAYBE YOU COULD
HELP TO JUST COMPILE A LIST AND
THEN I WILL REACH OUT TO
RAYMOND WITH THE COMPLETE LIST
ONCE IT'S COMPILED.
>> IT'S GOOD.
THANK YOU KENNEDY.
APPRECIATE THAT.
>> AND YEAH AND I WILL THOUGH
INVITE HIM NOW AND I'LL JUST
LET HIM KNOW THE QUESTIONS ARE
FORTHCOMING.
THAT'S IT FOR ME FOR THIS
REPORT DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ME?
>> I SURE KEELER HAS HIS HANDS
UP.
>> OH OH YEAH.
HI LARRY GO AHEAD.
YEAH I SOMEHOW SOMEHOW ALWAYS
GET IGNORED AND I PUT MY HAND
UP BUT THANK YOU I HAVE ANOTHER
I'LL PROBABLY BE TALKING TO
THEM THIS EVENING ANYWAY WHEN
IT COMES AROUND TO THE IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING THAT YOU WANT ME
TO ADDRESS IN OUR LITTLE
COMMISSION REPORT I CAN DO
THAT.
BUT ONE OF THE ONE OF THE
THOUGHTS I HAD WAS THAT MAYBE
IF THERE'S STAIRS THEY CAN'T
TAKE OUT IMMEDIATELY PUT OH MAN
I FORGET WHAT THEY'RE CALLED.
>> I SHOULD KNOW THIS IS THE
STRIP THE BUMPY STRIP THAT THEY
PUT AT THE CURB.
>> YEAH.
>> SO YOU CAN FEEL IT UP
UNDERNEATH YOUR FEET AND YOUR
CANE SO WHEN YOU FEEL THAT YOU
KNOW THERE'S YOU KNOW THERE'S
SOMETHING COMING UP IN YOU
MIGHT NOT KNOW IF IT'S A ROAD
OR A SCARE BUT YOU USUALLY FEEL
THAT AND TO GO OH THERE'S
SOMETHING THERE I GOT TO LOOK
FOR SO MAYBE SOME SOME KIND
OF TACTILE BUBBLE DEVICE I
CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT THEY CALL
THEM THINGS NOW AND I SHOULD
KNOW BUT SOMETHING LIKE THAT AS
WELL AS AS WELL AS MAYBE FOR
THOSE WHO CAN SEE SOMEWHAT
MAYBE A BRIGHT MAYBE A LINE A
YELLOW LINE OR SOMETHING BEFORE
THAT TOO IS THAT WOULDN'T HELP
ME.
I GIVE THEM AS RUMBLE STRIPS
BECAUSE THE RUMBLE STRIPS
STRIPS WHEN THEY'RE IN THE
STREET BUT THERE'S SOMETHING
ELSE WHEN THEY'RE ON THE CURB.
>> I DON'T LIKE THE FORMAL
MEDICAL TRAINING.
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW THESE ARE
BUT LARRY, I THINK THAT'S A
FANTASTIC SUGGESTION AND MAYBE
YOU SHOULD WHEN YOU ATTEND THE
COMMISSION MEETING TONIGHT TELL
RAYMOND THAT WE'RE BOTH
EXTENDING AN INVITATION FOR HIM
TO ATTEND OUR NEXT MEETING BUT
ALSO SOMETHING THAT JUMPED OUT
TO US WAS THERE NEEDS TO BE
MORE WARNING IN REGARDS TO THE
SIDEWALK THAT TURNED TO STAIRS
AND THAT HAS TO BE BOTH VISUAL
SENSORY SO THAT IT ACCOMMODATES
TO DIFFERENT TYPES
OF DISABILITIES.
I REMEMBER THAT WHEN I WAS WHEN
I MOVED INTO THE CITY I I FOUND
A FEW OF THEM STAIRS.
I REMEMBER ONE TIME THERE WAS A
WE WERE GOING THROUGH EACH
OF THEM CAMPUS WHICH PROBABLY
ISN'T UNDER THIS ANYWAY BUT WE
WERE IT WAS GOING ALONG AND ALL
OF A SUDDEN WHAT MY FRIEND SAID
WHAT'S WHAT'S GOING ON?
I SAID I JUST WALKED OUT OF A
FLIGHT OF STAIRS AND SAW HOW
MANY ARE THERE.
>> I SAID I DON'T KNOW.
I DIDN'T HIT ANY SO I DO I DO
KNOW THAT THAT'S A I'M NOBODY
GOT HURT.
THERE WAS A FUNNY INCIDENT BUT
THAT'S AN ISSUE.
>> YEAH.
THIS IS ACTING IN AND I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT IS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I REALLY APPRECIATE
ABOUT YOU IS YOUR ABILITY FOR
HUMOR IN A SITUATION
OF STRUGGLE.
BUT I WILL TELL YOU THAT THAT
ALSO COULD HAVE BEEN A VERY,
VERY HAZARDOUS SITUATION.
SO JUST THANK YOU FOR BEING
OF COURSE.
YEAH.
JUST THANK YOU FOR BRINGING
THAT TO OUR ATTENTION AND AND I
AGREE WITH COUNCIL MEMBER THAT
YOUR SUGGESTIONS I THINK ARE,
YOU KNOW, VERY, VERY
INFORMATIVE AND YEAH, I THINK I
THINK IT SHOULD BE MENTIONED
ABSOLUTELY.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
SO YEAH ACTUALLY THE ITEM IS
PLEASE EVERYONE FOLLOW YOUR
QUESTIONS OR SEND THEM TO ZACH
AND KENNEDY THAT ARE JUST
ISSUES IN GENERAL.
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE THE CITY TO
DISCUSS AND SHARE WITH YOU AT
OUR NEXT MEETING WHEN IT'S
RELATED TO SIDEWALK
INFRASTRUCTURE HOW WE GET
AROUND THE CITY AS PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND WHAT COULD BE
IMPROVED WITH THAT?
I'M GOING TO GO I'M GOING TO
SIGN OFF AND I'M GOING TO DO
STEAMING SO I CAN UNBLOCK MY
NOSE.
BUT I THINK THANKS EVERYONE.
>> SURE.
THANK YOU.
AND FEEL FREE TO YEAH.
GET GET WELL SOON.
ALL RIGHT.
SO NO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YOU HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
>> BYE BYE.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON
TO OUR NEXT SPECIAL
PRESENTATION.
SO KATIE IS TRAVELING RIGHT NOW
SO WE HAVE JACKIE BEST FROM THE
WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND
AND PHYSICALLY DISABLED TO GIVE
US THAT UPDATE.
SO PLEASE EVERYONE WELCOME
JACKIE CHAN AND JACKIE THE
FLOOR IS YOURS.
HI EVERYONE.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME TONIGHT.
I'VE GOT TWO EXCITING EVENTS
HAPPENING IN THE NEXT MONTH TO
TELL YOU ABOUT.
THE FIRST EVENT IS AN AUTHOR
EVENT KAREN DBAS DESTROYED
DETROIT STYLE PIZZA DOUGH TOWN
HISTORY.
>> THIS EVENT IS HAPPENING ON
SATURDAY OCTOBER TWENTY EIGHT
FROM TWO TO THREE THIRTY PM AND
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY FOURTH
FLOOR MEETING ROOM AND THIS IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH MARTIN VAN,
LONG TIME HOST OF THE MORNING
DRIVE ON ANN ARBOR'S ONE ZERO
SEVEN ONE WHO WILL BE IN
CONVERSATION WITH KAREN GIBUS
ABOUT HER NEW BOOK DETROIT
STYLE PIZZA ABOUT A DOWNTOWN
HISTORY WITH ITS AIRY CRUST
CHEESY HANA'S AND DISTINCTIVE
RED SAUCE ON TOP DETROIT STYLE
PIZZA IS ENJOYED WORLDWIDE
TRAVEL WITH AUTHOR KAREN DAVIS
THROUGH THE PIZZA'S HUMBLE
ORIGINS STARTING WITH GUS
SCHIRRA PUTTING THE FIRST
SQUARE PIE IN BUDDY'S OVEN TO
THE INTERNATIONAL PIZZA EXPO IN
LAS VEGAS WHERE A PIZZA
EVANGELIST SPREADS THE WORD
WORD ABOUT DETROIT STYLE
THROUGH THE WAVES OF CHEFS WHO
HAVE PUT THEIR SPIN ON THIS
UNIQUE PIZZA STYLE WITH
IN-DEPTH RESEARCH AND
STORYTELLING.
DAVIS TAKES YOU INTO THE
KITCHENS THAT DEVELOPED FOUGHT
OVER AND SOUGHT TO PERFECT THIS
DELECTABLE DISH THAT PUT
DETROIT UP THERE WITH NEW YORK,
CHICAGO AND NEW HAVEN WHEN IT
COMES TO PIZZA.
AND AGAIN THAT'S ON SATURDAY,
OCTOBER 28TH FROM TWO TO THREE
THIRTY IN THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
FOURTH FLOOR MEETING ROOM AND
THEN ON MONDAY, OCTOBER 30TH
FROM SIX THIRTY SEVEN THIRTY WE
HAVE A SPECIAL VOTING RIGHTS
EVENT ON NEW VOTING RIGHTS IN
MICHIGAN.
THIS EVENT WE WILL BE PROVIDING
A LIVESTREAM AND WE INTEND TO
MAKE IT AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE
VIEWING.
WE'LL ALSO HAVE A VIDEO PLAYER
WHICH WILL APPEAR ON OUR
WEBSITE ONE HOUR BEFORE THE
EVENT STARTS.
THIS EVENT IS IN THE WEST SIDE
ROOM AT THE WESTGATE LIBRARY.
>> RECENT MICHIGAN LAW CHANGES
HAVE EXPANDED VOTING TIMES,
PLACES AND METHODS IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR LEARN ABOUT THESE
NEWLY EXPANDED VOTERS AND GET
YOUR QUESTIONS ANSWERED BY A
SPEAKER FROM THE LEAGUE
OF WOMEN VOTERS IN OUR COUNTY,
A NONPARTISAN ORGANIZATION
DEVOTED TO DEFENDING DEMOCRACY
AND SUPPORTING VOTERS.
THIS EVENT IS IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
SO THOSE ARE TWO EVENTS WE HAVE
COMING UP IN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS
FOR MATERIALS WILL BE PATRONS
CAN ORDER DIGITAL CARTRIDGES BY
CALLING SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE
TWO SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO FOUR OR
EMAILING W ELBY PD AT ADLE DOUG
AND TO SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE
AND AUDIO READING SERVICE OR
BAADE TO DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN
BOOKS YOU CAN VISIT AND LESS
VRD ALOSI TAGHAVI OR CALL US
AND WE CAN ASSIST WITH THE
APPLICATION AND TO EXCITING NEW
BOOKS THAT WE'VE RECENTLY ADDED
TO THE RECENTLY ADDED TO THE
BARD COLLECTION.
THE FIRST OF THESE IS FUNNY YOU
DON'T LOOK AUTISTIC.
A COMEDIAN'S GUIDE TO LIFE ON
THE SPECTRUM BY MICHAEL
MCCRORIE.
LIKE MANY OTHERS ON THE AUTISM
SPECTRUM, TWENTY SOMETHINGS
STAND UP COMIC MICHAEL MCCREERY
HAS BEEN TOLD BY MORE THAN A
FEW WELL-MEANING FOLKS THAT HE
DOESN'T LOOK AUTISTIC.
BUT HE'S QUICK TO POINT OUT IN
HIS MEMOIR
AUTISM LOOKS
DIFFERENT FOR JUST ABOUT
EVERYONE WITH AUTISM SPECTRUM
DISORDER ALSO KNOWN AS ASD
DIAGNOSED WITH ASD AT AGE FIVE
MCCRORIE GOT HIT WITH A
PERFORMANCE BUG NOT MUCH LATER
DURING A DIFFICULT TIME IN
JUNIOR HIGH HE STARTED
JOURNALING EVENTUALLY TURNING
HIS PAIN INTO SOMETHING
EMPOWERING AND FUNNY.
HE SCORED HIS FIRST STAND UP
GIG AT AGE 14 AND HASN'T LOOKED
BACK.
THIS UNIQUE AND HILARIOUS
MEMOIR BREAKS DOWN WHAT IT'S
LIKE TO LIVE WITH AUTISM FOR
READERS ON AND OFF THE SPECTRUM
FUNNY YOU DON'T LOOK AUTISTIC
IS AN INVALUABLE AND COMPELLING
READ FOR YOUNG READERS WITH ASD
LOOKING FOR VOICES TO RELATE TO
AS WELL AS FOR READERS HOPING
TO BROADEN THEIR UNDERSTANDING
OF ASD.
>> AND FINALLY OUR OR OTHER
RECENT ADDITION TO BARD IS A
VISIBLE MAN AND MEMOIR BY
EDWARD INFL WHEN EDWARD IN
ENFOLD BECAME THE FIRST BLACK
EDITOR IN CHIEF OF BRITISH
VOGUE, FEW IN THE WORLD
OF FASHION WANTED TO CONFRONT
HOW IT FAILED TO REPRESENT THE
WORLD WE LIVE.
BUT EDWARD, A CHAMPION
OF INCLUSION THROUGHOUT HIS
LIFE, RAPIDLY CHANGED THAT.
NOW WHETHER IT'S PUTTING FIRST
RESPONDERS, OCTOGENARIANS OR
CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVISTS ON THE
COVER OF VOGUE OR CHAMPIONING
DESIGNERS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS
OF COLOREDWARD HAS CEMENTED
HIS STATUS AS ONE OF THE
WORLD'S MOST IMPORTANT CHANGE
MAKERS.
A VISIBLE MAN TRACES AN
ASTONISHING JOURNEY INTO ONE
OF THE WORLD'S MOST EXCLUSIVE
INDUSTRIES.
EDWARD CANDIDLY SHARES HOW AS A
MOST EXCLUSIVE I'M SORRY
OUTWARDLY CANDIDLY SHARES HOW
AS A BLACK WORKING CLASS
REFUGEE HE FOUND IN FASHION NOT
ONLY AT HOME BUT THE FREEDOM TO
SHARE WITH PEOPLE THE WORLD AS
HE SAW IT WRITTEN WITH STYLE,
GRACE AND HEART, A VISIBLE MAN
SHINES A SPOTLIGHT ON THE
CAREER OF ONE OF THE GREATEST
CREATIVE MINDS OF OUR TIMES.
IT IS THE STORY OF A VISIONARY
WHO CHANGED NOT ONLY IN
INDUSTRY BUT HOW WE UNDERSTAND
BEAUTY AND THAT WAS PROVIDED BY
THE PUBLISHER.
>> AND DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ME?
THANK YOU SO MUCH JACKIE.
JUST SO MUCH GOING ON WITHIN
THE LIBRARY AND ALL OF THE GOOD
THINGS THAT YOU GUYS ARE DOING
AND YOU KNOW, VERY EXCITED FOR
THAT EVENT KNOWING YOUR VOTING
RIGHTS SO THAT'S JUST TO
CLARIFY THAT'S TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 17TH, CORRECT?
THAT'S MONDAY, OCTOBER 30TH AT
SIX THIRTY TO SEVEN THIRTY PM
IN THE WESTGATE LIBRARY.
>> YEP.
NOT MONDAY OCTOBER 30TH.
OK, YES.
THANK YOU FOR DOUBLE CHECKING
ON OCTOBER THIRTY SIX THIRTY
SEVEN THIRTY AND WE ARE
PLANNING TO LIVESTREAM THAT
EVENT BARRING ANY COMPLICATIONS
AND WE EXPECT TO MAKE IT
AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE VIEWING SO
BE AVAILABLE FOR VIEWING AFTER
THE EVENT TAKES PLACE AND IF
YOU'RE INTERESTED IN WATCHING
IT WHAT YOU CAN DO IS VISIT
ADULT DOG EVENTS.
SO THAT'S ADLE DOUGRAY EVENTS
GO TO THE CALENDAR PAGE THE
CALENDAR VIEW ON THAT PAGE,
CLICK ON THE DAY'S DATE AND
THEN SCROLL DOWN BELOW THE
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT AND
THERE WILL BE A VIDEO PLAYER IT
APPEARS ONE HOUR BEFORE THE
EVENT BEGINS.
SO ON THE DAY OF THE EVENT JUST
SCROLL BELOW THE DESCRIPTION ON
THE EVENT LINK ITSELF AND
THAT'S WHERE THE THAT'S WHERE
THE LIVE STREAM WILL BE WILL
BEGIN TO APPEAR ONE HOUR BEFORE
THE EVENT TAKES PLACE.
SO IF YOU GO AND LOOK FOR
BEFORE ONE HOUR BEFORE THE
EVENT YOU WON'T SEE ANYTHING
THERE.
SO DON'T WORRY.
I PROMISE IT'LL SHOW UP THERE.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU JACQUI.
AND JUST TO CLARIFY FOR FOR
VIEWERS, ARE PEOPLE ABLE TO
COME TO THIS OCTOBER 30TH EVENT
IN PERSON OR IS IT VIRTUAL?
ABSOLUTELY NO.
IT'S IN-PERSON AS WELL.
IT'S JUST THAT THE WESTGATE
LIBRARY FROM SIX THIRTY SEVEN
THIRTY BUT IF YOU'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT PARKING OR ANY REASON
THAT YOU WOULD PREFER TO STAY
HOME, YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY WELCOME
TO VIEW IT REMOTELY UNDERSTOOD
.
OK, THANK YOU.
YEAH YOU'RE WELCOME.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
>> NO.
OK THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
ME.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU JACKI AND THANKS
AGAIN.
THANK YOU TO KATIE.
>> SAFE TRAVELS KATIE WHEREVER
YOU ARE.
ABSOLUTELY YES.
YES I'M SO GLAD SHE'S TO ENJOY
YOUR VACATION.
YES INDEED.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
BYE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MUNRO AND
LIVINGSTON REPORT WITH ANDREA
HENRY.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON FOR FROM
DISABILITY NETWORK TODAY?
>> KENNEDY IT LOOKS LIKE WE DO
NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL PUT IN THE MINUTES THAT
THERE IS NO REPORT OK NEXT I
JUST WASN'T SURE FIRST OF ALL,
OK, WE HAVE THE APPEA REPORT AS
WELL AS COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
BUT AS FAR AS THE PARTNER AND
ACCESS COMMITTEE IS CONCERNED,
FIRST OF ALL I WANTED TO JUST
APOLOGIZE.
I GUESS THERE WAS SOME
CONFUSION AT THE LAST MEETING
AS TO WHEN THE MEETING WAS AND
THEN YOU KNOW, I DON'T I GUESS
I DON'T WANT TO DIVULGE ANY
PERSONAL INFORMATION PUBLICLY
BUT I KNOW OUR CHAIRMAN OF THAT
SUBCOMMITTEE DID LET KENNEDY
AND I KNOW THAT THEY ARE NO
LONGER ABLE TO CHAIR THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE WHICH MAINLY DEALS
WITH PHYSICAL ACCESS BARRIERS,
ISSUES THAT ARE PRESENTED
WITHIN OUR CITY PARTNERS AND
ACCESS DOES AS THEY CONVENE AS
A SUBCOMMITTEE TO COME UP WITH
SOLUTIONS TO SOME OF THOSE
PHYSICAL ACCESS BARRIERS THAT
THAT ARISE AND SO, YOU KNOW, I
JUST WANT TO PUT OUT A FEELER
TO OUR COMMISSIONERS HERE TODAY
THAT IF THERE IS ANY MORE THAT
IS INTERESTED IN BEING IN
CHAIRING SUBCOMMITTEE
OF PARTNERS AND ACCESS, PLEASE
FEEL FREE TO LET KENNEDY OR
MYSELF KNOW THAT YOU ARE
INTERESTED AND THEN WE CAN GO
ABOUT HOPEFULLY GETTING YOU
LOOPED IN WITH COMMISSIONER
GASED TO IS GOING TO BE
STEPPING DOWN FROM THAT ROLE.
BUT HOPEFULLY THEY CAN GIVE YOU
A LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND INTO
WHAT THAT POSITION WOULD ENTAIL
.
PLEASE NOTE THAT I WILL BE AN
OPEN BOOK FOR YOU.
WELL SO HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE
ABOUT CHAIRING THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE.
BUT AGAIN, JUST WANT TO NOTE
FOR THE RECORD THAT
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE WILL BE
STEPPING DOWN AS CHAIRMAN
OF PARTNERS AND ACCESS.
SO WE DO NEED A NEW CHAIRMAN
OF THAT SUBCOMMITTEE.
HELLO.
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK PLEASE.
>> YES, GO AHEAD.
WELL, THE HANDWRITING DOESN'T
ALWAYS WORK WITH MY PHONE AND
IT TAKES A MINUTE SO THAT'S WHY
I DON'T DO IT.
I DO APOLOGIZE BECAUSE
SOMETIMES I SOUND LIKE I'M
INTERRUPTING I'M INTERJECTING
WHEN I SHOULDN'T.
BUT THE RACING FEATURE ON MY
PHONE FOR SOME REASON DOESN'T
GET ONE OF THOSE OLD FLIP
PHONES BUT I WOULD BE WILLING
TO IN THE INTERIM CHAIR THE
COMMITTEE CHAIR THAT COMMITTEE
.
BUT I I DON'T WANT TO KEEP IT
BECAUSE I GOT ENOUGH GOING ON
RIGHT NOW BUT I WILL
TEMPORARILY I CAN TEMPORARILY
CHAIR THAT UNTIL WE TILL WE GET
A HOPEFULLY ANOTHER COMMISSION
OR TWO OUT THERE THAT WOULD BE
WILLING TO DO THAT AND I WOULD
LIKE TO I DIDN'T GET I DIDN'T
GET THE EMAIL TO THAT.
I DIDN'T GET THE ACCESS
CODE AND ALL THAT TO THAT AND I
GOT BUSY I'D LIKE TO TO TO I
DON'T NECESSARILY NEED TO TELL
YOU THE TIME BUT I'D LIKE TO
WORK ON CHANGING THE DAY FOR
THAT EVENTUALLY AS WELL TO YOU
KNOW MONDAY, TUESDAY OR MONDAY
OR TUESDAY WOULD WORK BETTER
FOR ME BUT IT YOU KNOW THAT
THAT WOULD BE UP TO THE PEOPLE
ON THE COMMITTEE AND THAT'S
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO.
BUT LIKE I SAID, I'M I WOULD
INTERIM CHAIR OF THIS MEETING
OK, SO THANK YOU, LARRY.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY AND
SUMMARIZE WHAT YOU SAID SO NO
ONE YOU'RE WILLING TO STEP IN
AS CHAIRMAN TEMPORARILY FOR
THIS PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE BUT THEN YOU WOULD
ALSO IN THE FUTURE LIKE TO
EXPLORE CHANGING THE DATE
OF THAT PARTICULAR MEETING
CORRECT?
YES.
YES, YEAH.
YEAH.
BECAUSE I DO THINGS I VERY
OFTEN DO THINGS ON WEDNESDAYS
AND IF I DIDN'T SEE THAT
MEETING THING COME UP I JUST
KEPT DOING IT.
>> YEAH OK.
NOTED AND I DO YOU KNOW I
APOLOGIZE FOR YOU NOT NOT
GETTING THAT INFORMATION BUT I
WILL DO A BETTER JOB OF YOU
KNOW MAKING SURE THAT THAT YOU
HAVE WHAT YOU NEED GOING
FORWARD AND I'D LIKE TO ALSO
SAY THAT I DON'T THINK I YOU I
THAT'S TOOK A LOT OF SEE THIS
COMMITTEE FALL APART BECAUSE WE
DEFINITELY NEED IT.
IT'S DEFINITELY USEFUL
COMMITTEE TO HAVE HAPPEN AND WE
DON'T WANT IT TO FALL APART.
>> I AGREE WITH YOU.
I AGREE I MEAN, YOU KNOW,
PHYSICAL ACCESS BARRIERS ARE
VERY IMPORTANT.
>> WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT,
YOU KNOW, FOR INSTANCE
SIDEWALKS OR CURB CUTS OR YOU
KNOW, DIFFERENT PHYSICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE TYPE OF THINGS
ARE ARE DETERIORATING IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT PARTNERS AND
ACCESS RIGHT THERE TO BE ABLE
TO PUT THAT ON THE FOREFRONT
OF THE COMMISSION'S MIND AND
ULTIMATELY TO OUR COUNCIL
LIAISON AS WELL TO BE ABLE TO
PUT THAT FORWARD TO CITY
COUNCIL AND
MAKE THEM AWARE
OF IT AS WELL.
SO THANK YOU, LARRY.
I DO APPRECIATE THE EFFORTS
THAT YOU AND THE PIA HAVE DONE
FOR AND I DO WANT TO AGAIN JUST
LASTLY APOLOGIZE FOR THE LAG IN
COMMUNICATION.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
KATHLEEN, YOU ARE ALSO ON THAT
MEETING AS WELL AS MISS BERGA,
OUR NEW ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR.
SO TO ALL OF YOU I HOPE THAT WE
CAN REFINE THAT PROCESS AND
THERE IS NO MORE FLAGS AND IN
THAT BUT THANK YOU THANK YOU,
LARRY FOR STEPPING IN TO THAT
ROLE TEMPORARILY.
NEXT, I WANTED TO KNOW DO WE
HAVE ANYONE FROM THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE ON AT THIS
TIME?
MISSIONER HAWKINS IS NOT HERE
SO SHE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
THANK YOU.
>> SO NO REPORT FOR COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO HOW ABOUT RECRUITING
ACTIVITY?
MR. VERY KEILLER OH, RECRUITING
ACTIVITY AS YOU SEE IT'S GOTTEN
VERY WELL.
>> I'D LIKE TO WELCOME OUR NEW
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER PARK
COMMISSIONER, WHAT WAS YOUR
LAST COMMISSIONER?
I'M SORRY I LOOK AT CHAMBERS
COMMISSIONER CHILVERS I CAN
REMEMBER THAT I REMEMBER YOUR
FIRST NAME BUT I'D LIKE TO
WELCOME THEM OFFICIALLY TO THE
COMMISSION AND AS YOU SEE WE
HAD OUR OTHER INTERVIEW ON
THERE AND WHERE THAT VOTE'S
COMING UP SOON ENOUGH TO SEND
HER ON.
SO WE GOT THAT AND WE'VE GOT
ANOTHER I I HAVE ANOTHER MEMBER
WHO SAID THEY ARE ANOTHER
CANDIDATE WHO SENT THE
APPLICATION IN BUT SO FAR IT
HASN'T GOT GOD OR WHATEVER
THEY'RE HAVING PROBLEMS BUT I
HAVE TO GET BACK WITH THEM TO
SEE WHAT'S HAPPENED.
>> SO OUR RECRUITING COMMITTEE
IS DOING ALL RIGHT SO FAR WE'RE
DOING PRETTY GOOD.
GOOD.
THAT'S AWESOME TO HEAR AND BOY
,MY GOODNESS, ALL THE THINGS
I'M GOING TO TOUCH ON IN THE
CHAIR REPORT OTHERS ARE ALSO
TOUCHING ON HERE BUT BUT YEAH,
I'M DEFINITELY GOING TO GOING
TO SAY MORE ON SOME OF THE
OTHER THINGS THAT YOU
MENTIONED, LARRY.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND GREAT JOB TO YOU AND OUR
RECRUITMENT COMMITTEE FOR FOR
THE JOB.
>> THEY'RE DOING ABSOLUTELY
EVERYTHING AS WELL JUST BETWEEN
YOU AND I.
WE WE'VE CONDUCTED A FEW
INTERVIEWS A LOT THROUGH
MONTANELLI.
>> WELL, THANK YOU.
WE'RE WE'RE DOING OUR BEST.
ABSOLUTELY.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL AND DON'T GO ANYWHERE,
LARRY.
BECAUSE I'M NOT HERE BECAUSE
NOW I'D LIKE TO REQUEST THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
UPDATE.
>> I'M HERE READY AND I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW WHY I DIDN'T I
DIDN'T TAKE A LOT OF NOTES
BECAUSE I GUESS THERE WASN'T A
LOT OF STUFF THAT WAS NEW.
THERE'S STILL A LOT
OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS GOING
ON AND AH WE HAVE OUR CONSENT
AGENDA WAS APPROVED COMMENT OH
PUBLIC COMMENT AND OF COURSE
IT'S A YEAR LATE BUT I GOT
WELCOME TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMITTEE BY ONE OF THE PEOPLE
IN PUBLIC COMMENT AND THEN WE
GOT IT I GOT THIS KIRK
WESTFALL, FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER
WANTED TO GET RID OF ALL THE
MULTI LANE HIGHWAYS WHERE
THERE'S A LOT OF TRAFFIC MULTI
LANE ROADS WHICH ARE COMING
THROUGH.
>> HE WANTED TO GET RID OF THEM
WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE SAFE
CROSSINGS.
SAFE CROSSINGS ARE TWENTY
THREE.
I'VE NEVER TRIED TO CROSS
TWENTY THREE BUT I GUESS YOU
COULD MAKE A SAFE CROSSING
GUARD THAT AND THEN THERE WAS
THAT AMENDMENT AMENDMENT TO
THAT PARTICULAR RESOLUTION AND
THAT WAS CARRY THE RESOLUTION
ALSO ALSO THERE'S A RESOLUTION
TO AMEND BYLAWS AND THAT WAS TO
REVIEW AND AMEND BYLAWS AND
THAT WAS PASSED AND HERE'S
SOMETHING ABOUT REVIEWING
GRANVILLE TRAFFIC TRAFFIC
CALMING THAT PASS AND THEN
SPEED MANAGEMENT AGAIN WHILE
THEY'RE ALWAYS WORKING ON SPEED
MANAGEMENT AND ROAD DIETZE
MENTIONED AND MENTIONED OTHER
TRAFFIC CONCERNS SO BASICALLY
THAT THEY'RE STILL WORKING ON
NARROWING ROADS AND SLOWING
TRAFFIC THROUGH THE CITY MAKING
ZEGAS MORE SAFE.
I HAVE SOME DISAGREEMENTS WITH
THAT BUT PERSONAL ONES BUT
THAT'S WHAT I REPORT SAYS SO
THAT'S GOOD.
>> AND IF YOU WANT ME IF YOU
WANT ME TO TAKE THIS LATER ON
TO THE COMMISSION OF THE
SIDEWALK THING THAT WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT, I WILL DO THAT.
I WILL MENTION THE IDEA THAT IF
YOU HAVE ANY IDEAS YOU WANT ME
TO MENTION WE HAVE A AT THE END
OF OUR MEETING WE HAVE A
COMMISSION REPORT WHERE
DIFFERENT COMMISSIONS AND
REPRESENTED OF COMMISSIONS CAN
REPORT WHAT EITHER WHAT THEY
ARE DOING OR WHAT THEY'D LIKE
TO BRING UP.
AND SO FAR I PLAN TO BRING UP
WHAT I HAD TALKED TO COUNCILMAN
EDWYN ABOUT AND IF YOU HAVE ANY
OTHER ANY OTHER THINGS TO THAT
YOU CAN ADD TO THAT I DON'T I
DON'T HAVE TO KNOW TILL THE
MEETING'S OVER.
SO IF YOU GUYS HAVE ANY
ANYTHING TO ADD YOU COULD DO
THAT BEFORE THE END OF THE
MEETING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
I DO APPRECIATE IT.
WE DO HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
SO I'M GOING TO START WITH
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON FIRST AND
THEN I WILL GO TO COMMISSIONER
PACARD AND THEN COMMISSIONER
RATCLIFFE ALSO JUST RAISE YOUR
HAND KENNEDY SO WE'LL GO WITH
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON,
COMMISSIONER PACKARD AND THEN
COMMISSIONER GO AHEAD.
>> COMMISSIONER SOLOMON.
LARRY, THANKS FOR THAT REPORT.
I HAVE A QUESTION AND A COMMENT
.
THE QUESTION IS ABOUT THE
STATUS.
KIRK WESTFALL WHO I BELIEVE
USED TO BE THE LIAISON TO THIS
COMMISSION AND AS FAR AS I KNOW
IS NO LONGER AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL WAS VOTED OUT.
>> SO COULD YOU CLARIFY ROLE IN
THIS MEETING?
I HAD HE WAS A FORMER COP.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT HE DOES NOW.
HE WAS HE WAS IN PUBLIC.
I'M SORRY I DIDN'T MAKE THAT
CLEAR.
HE WAS A FORMER COUNCILMAN.
I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE WHAT HE
DOES NOW.
HE HE WAS IN HE RESPONDED IN
PUBLIC COMMENT AND MENTIONED
THE HE WAS MENTIONING CROSSINGS
ON TWENTY THREE PART OF WHAT HE
WAS MENTIONING AND THE OTHER
THING THE OTHER THING HE
MENTIONED WAS THE THE ROAD
THINGS THAT HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT BUT NO HE'S NOT AS FAR AS
I KNOW HE'S NOT A COUNCILMAN
ANYMORE BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT
HE DOES.
>> WELL I THINK THIS PIGGYBACKS
WHICH IS TO SAY THAT THIS WHOLE
NOTION OF ROAD DIETS IS A
DISABILITY ISSUE BECAUSE
BICYCLING IS NOT A DISCIPLINE
FRIENDLY FORM OF PROTECTION AND
THE WAY THAT THIS CITY KEEPS
PRIVILEGING BICYCLING IS
PROBLEMATIC AND IT NEEDS TO BE
PUSHED BACK ON EVERY SINGLE
CHANCE WE GET AND TO HAVE A
FORMER COUNCIL PERSON
PRESENTING SOME ASININE
PROPOSAL IS REALLY PROBLEMATIC.
SO I JUST WANT TO FLAG THE
ISSUE OF ROAD DIETZE AS A
DISABILITY UNFRIENDLY MEASURE
WHICH I BELIEVE THIS COMMISSION
NEEDS TO SPEAK ON EVERY TIME IT
COMES UP FOR DISCUSSION.
IT'S INCREDIBLY PROBLEMATIC AND
IT'S.
IT'S THE SOURCE OF SO MUCH
IT'S INCREDIBLY PROBLEMATIC AND
OF THE CITY'S RESOURCES GOING
IT'S THE SOURCE OF SO MUCH
INTO UNNECESSARY CONSTRUCTION
OF THE CITY'S RESOURCES GOING
PROJECTS.
INTO UNNECESSARY CONSTRUCTION
AGAIN, I'M SPEAKING AS A
PROJECTS.
CITIZEN RIGHT NOW.
AGAIN, I'M SPEAKING AS A
>> I ALSO AGREE WITH THAT.
CITIZEN RIGHT NOW.
I ALSO MENTIONED I MENTIONED
>> I ALSO AGREE WITH THAT.
THAT TO OUR TO THE
I ALSO MENTIONED I MENTIONED
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
THAT TO OUR TO THE
I ALSO MENTIONED THAT WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
WAY THAT THEY'RE WORKING PUBLIC
I ALSO MENTIONED THAT WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION VERY OFTEN HAS A
WAY THAT THEY'RE WORKING PUBLIC
HARD TIME DROPPING OFF PEOPLE
TRANSPORTATION VERY OFTEN HAS A
WITH DISABILITIES AS WELL WITH
HARD TIME DROPPING OFF PEOPLE
THE THINGS THEY'RE DOING WITH
WITH DISABILITIES AS WELL WITH
THE ROADS PUTTING IN THE BIKE
THE THINGS THEY'RE DOING WITH
LANES AND CUTTING DOWN THE
THE ROADS PUTTING IN THE BIKE
MAKING THE ROAD.
LANES AND CUTTING DOWN THE
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT FOR A
MAKING THE ROAD.
PEOPLE TO MAKE BUS STOPS AND
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT FOR A
ALSO VERY DIFFICULT FOR ARRIVED
PEOPLE TO MAKE BUS STOPS AND
VEHICLES TO COME IN AND DROP
ALSO VERY DIFFICULT FOR ARRIVED
OFF SOME OF THE PEOPLE THEY'RE
VEHICLES TO COME IN AND DROP
DROPPING OFF BECAUSE THEY CAN'T
OFF SOME OF THE PEOPLE THEY'RE
GET CLOSE ENOUGH TO THE CURB
DROPPING OFF BECAUSE THEY CAN'T
THAT THEY CAN'T GET TO GOOD
GET CLOSE ENOUGH TO THE CURB
ACCESSIBLE PLACES GO UP, LET
THAT THEY CAN'T GET TO GOOD
THE RAMPS DOWN, LET THEM OUT
ACCESSIBLE PLACES GO UP, LET
OF THAT.
THE RAMPS DOWN, LET THEM OUT
I'M BRING THAT TO THE
OF THAT.
COMMISSION TO THE
I'M BRING THAT TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONER'S
COMMISSION TO THE
OFFICE.
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONER'S
>> I CAN THANK YOU, LARRY.
OFFICE.
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
>> I CAN THANK YOU, LARRY.
THAT WE CONTINUE STRESSING THAT
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
POINT AND PUSHING BACK ON THIS
THAT WE CONTINUE STRESSING THAT
BICYCLE.
POINT AND PUSHING BACK ON THIS
>> MANEA MISSIONER PACKERS'
BICYCLE.
JUST THE POINT OF THE
>> MANEA MISSIONER PACKERS'
ACCESSIBLE CROSSING FOR TWENTY
JUST THE POINT OF THE
THREE I'M ASSUMING THAT'S A
ACCESSIBLE CROSSING FOR TWENTY
BRIDGE THAT THEY WOULD
THREE I'M ASSUMING THAT'S A
REPROPOSING.
BRIDGE THAT THEY WOULD
THERE'S A WALKING BRIDGE I
REPROPOSING.
BELIEVE FOR US.
THERE'S A WALKING BRIDGE I
TWENTY THREE NEAR WHERE I LIVE
BELIEVE FOR US.
BY MILK CREEK APARTMENTS.
TWENTY THREE NEAR WHERE I LIVE
>> I'M NOT SURE IF THAT WAS YOU
BY MILK CREEK APARTMENTS.
ASKED OR YOU WEREN'T SURE WHAT
>> I'M NOT SURE IF THAT WAS YOU
WHAT WAS SAFE CROSSING FOR
ASKED OR YOU WEREN'T SURE WHAT
TWENTY THREE I JUST THOUGHT I'D
WHAT WAS SAFE CROSSING FOR
ASK IF MAYBE THAT WAS THAT MY
THAT MIGHT BE AT THERE TWENTY
THREE YES BUT IT'S A NICE
CROSSING THIS AREA WHERE I LIVE
NEAR OF A MILL CREEK APARTMENTS
IF ANYONE WANTS TO LOOK AT IT
IT'S A PEDESTRIAN AREA KIND
OF AN EXPERIENCE STANDING OVER
US.
TWENTY THREE PEDESTRIAN WHAT
WAS THAT CROSSING WHAT TRIGGERS
THE BECAUSE I'D ACTUALLY LIKE
TO GO INVESTIGATE IT MILL CREEK
THERE'S KIND OF A GOLF COURSE
IN THAT AREA AND THEN IF YOU
WALK THE TRAIL THERE'S A PATH
AND IT GOES OVER US TWENTY
THREE YOU CAN FOLLOW ONE CREEK
ABOUT NEAR NEARBY THAT I GET I
GET OK I GET THERE OK THANK YOU
MR. RADCLIFF.
WELL TWO THINGS.
THE FIRST IS ABOUT US TWENTY
THREE IN THE CROSSINGS IT WAS
ACTUALLY PART OF A CITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION AND ATTACHED TO FOR
MONDAY NIGHT AND ATTACHED THE
AGENDA IS A MAP THAT SHOWS THE
SPECIFIC CROSSINGS FOR US
TWENTY THREE AND WHERE THEY ARE
IN ANN ARBOR.
I KNOW THAT WE HAVE SEVERAL
OVER AND IN MY AREA NEAR OUR
LAND BECAUSE YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT WHEREPLE GET ON AND
OFF THE FREEWAY WHEN THEY'RE
DRIVING AND OURS OVER ON THIS
SIDE IT HAS LIKE A STOP SIGN
THAT YOU CAN'T TELL IF THE
DRIVER YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO STOP
OR AS THE PEDESTRIAN YOU'RE
SUPPOSED TO STOP EITHER WAY, NO
ONE ACTUALLY REALLY STOPS AT
THAT ONE.
AND SO IT IS DEFINITELY AN
ACCIDENT WAITING TO HAPPEN OVER
THERE AND SO IT IS IT IS AN
ACTUAL PROBLEM THAT COINCIDES
WITH AN OBVIOUS VISION ZERO
PLAN FOR ZERO CAR ACCIDENTS AND
THEN FOR THE CYCLING.
I JUST WANT TO BRING UP THAT
CYCLING UNTO ITSELF ISN'T
INHERENTLY DISABILITY
UNFRIENDLY FRONT.
IT'S A WAY THAT WE'RE WE'RE
IMPLEMENTING POLICY AND
INFRASTRUCTURE HERE WITHIN THE
CITY.
THERE'S A LOT MORE GOING ON IN
OTHER COUNTRIES THAT ARE REALLY
TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION NOT
JUST WAS IT QUOTE UNQUOTE I
GUESS QUOTE UNQUOTE ABLE BODIED
PEOPLE IN TERMS OF THE CYCLING
CYCLING BUT ALSO PEOPLE WHO DO
HAVE MOBILITY ISSUES OR
DISABILITY, THOSE WHO USE
BICYCLES AND THOSE WHO DO NOT.
AND SO I THINK THAT WE DO KIND
OF NEED TO BE A LITTLE AS AS A
CITY NOT SAYING LIKE IN IN
ANYTHING ELSE BUT JUST AS A
CITY I THINK THAT IT DEFINITELY
DOES NEED TO BE PLANNED A LOT
BETTER IN TERMS OF HOW THEY'RE
BUILDING AND THE THE CYCLING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND ALSO THE
CONSIDERATION OF WHO IS CYCLING
BECAUSE NONE OF IT'S BUILT FOR
PEOPLE WHO USE ANY SORT
OF ACCESSIBLE SIPLE WHETHER TO
STRIKE OR ANY OTHER KIND
OF KIND OF CYCLE OR THIS EXACT
I JUST WANTED TO THANK YOU FOR
THAT AND YOU KNOW, JUST TO ECHO
THE COMMENTS OF COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON THAT THESE ROAD DIETS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT, YOU KNOW,
WE NEED TO ENSURE THAT AS THEY
ARE PLANNING THESE ROAD
CONSTRUCTION AND THAT THE
BICYCLE LANES ARE TALKED ABOUT
THAT THIS DOESN'T IMPEDE, YOU
KNOW, CURB CUTS.
THIS DOESN'T IMPEDE RAMPS.
THIS DOESN'T IMPEDE SIDEWALKS
ANYWAY, THANK YOU, MR.
CHAMBERS.
>> YEAH, SO I AGREE WITH
EVERYTHING THAT'S BEEN SAID.
I DEFINITELY WOULD ECHO
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON'S POINTS
REGARDING THE EMPHASIS ON ONE
HAND I UNDERSTAND THE EMPHASIS
ON BICYCLES BEING A MORE
INACCESSIBLE MODE
OF TRANSPORTATION FOR MORE
REASONS THAN ONE.
I THINK AS SOMEONE WITH
COGNITIVE DISABILITIES WHO
THAT'S NOT AVAILABLE TO AND I
ALSO UNDERSTAND THE OTHER SIDE
OF THAT ARGUMENT WITH REGARD TO
MOBILITY AIDS AND ACCESSIBLE
USE OF ACCESSIBLE KIND
OF VEHICLES IN THAT SENSE WITH
REGARD TO THE TRANSPORTATION OR
THE THE CONSTRUCTION AND HOW
THAT IS SORT OF IMPACTING
TRANSPORTATION.
ONE THING THAT I JUST WANTED TO
BRING UP IS SOMEONE WITH A LOT
OF COGNITIVE DISABILITIES AS
I'M WONDERING IS THERE'S BEEN
ANY CONVERSATIONS AROUND AND
HAVING EITHER ADDITIONAL OR
MORE CLEARLY MARKED DETOURS
WHEN YOU KNOW, DRIVERS DO COME
UP AGAINST THESE CONSTRUCTION
SITES BECAUSE I KNOW THAT AS
SOMEONE WITH A LOT OF SPATIAL
AND DIRECTIONAL CHALLENGES I
HAVE FOUND A LOT OF SITUATIONS
WHERE I YOU KNOW, MY GPS MAYBE
HAS NOT CAUGHT UP TO THE
DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION SITES
AND I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S
BEEN ANY CONVERSATION AS TO
LIKE HOW TO ADDRESS THAT, HOW
TO IMPLEMENT MORE FORMALIZED
DETOURS OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
I UNDERSTAND IT'S A COMPLICATED
ISSUE AND YOU KNOW, THAT MIGHT
BE EASIER SAID THAN DONE BUT I
JUST WANTED TO BRING THAT UP.
LARRY, DO YOU HAVE ANY RESPONSE
TO COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS'
QUESTION?
I THINK YOU KNOW, IT RAISES A
GREAT QUESTION TO THOSE THAT
AGAIN FACE THOSE CHALLENGES
THAT COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS
MENTIONED AS WELL AS YOU KNOW,
THE ISSUE WITH GPS I'VE NOTICED
THAT AS WELL THAT AT TIMES THAT
GPS CAN CAN LAG AND YOU'RE
GOING DOWN A LANE AND AT SOME
POINT YOU HAVE TO MAKE A
DECISION SO ANY ANY EXPANSION
ON THAT I HAVEN'T HEARD
ANYTHING THAT THAT PARTICULAR
PART I CAN BRING IT UP THOUGH.
YEAH.
I MEAN IF YOU'RE IF IT IS ABLE
TO BE BROUGHT UP I THINK THAT
MIGHT BE SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE ADDRESSED.
I UNDERSTAND THOUGH THAT THERE
ARE A LOT OF CONSIDERATIONS
WITH EVERYTHING GOING ON WITH
TRANSPORTING.
SO IF IT IS SOMETHING THAT
COULD BE ADDRESSED I THINK THAT
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL FOR A LOT
OF US.
>> WHAT WHAT TYPE OF REALLY
QUICK.
COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS LIKE WHAT
KIND WHAT KIND OF ADDITIONAL
DIRECTIONS FOR THE DETAILS
WOULD BE HELPFUL.
>> SO I THINK JUST A LITTLE BIT
MORE SIGNAGE WITH REGARD TO THE
ALTERNATE ROUTES WHEN THERE IS
A MAJOR STREET THAT IS CLOSED,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO THE
ONES THAT ARE FREQUENTLY USED
AS SORT OF THE MAIN ROADS AND
IN TOWN I JUST THINK THAT SOME
ADDITIONAL DIRECTION FOR THOSE
OF US I MEAN FOR MYSELF I DON'T
HAVE A CLEAR MAP OF THE CITY IN
MY HEAD BECAUSE MY DISABILITY
REALLY PREVENTS ME FROM BEING
ABLE TO MAP OUT THOSE SPATIAL
DISTANCES.
>> SO I THINK JUST A LITTLE BIT
THAT FORMALIZED SIGNAGE OR
DIRECTION ON THE PART OF JUST
IN GENERAL I THINK COULD MAKE A
HUGE DIFFERENCE IF THAT'S
POSSIBLE.
>> OK, YEAH LARRY, IF YOU
WOULDN'T MIND BRINGING THAT TO
THE ATTENTION OF THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION THAT
WOULD BE GREAT.
I THANK KENNEDY.
I WANTED TO ADD ANOTHER LAYER
TO THE CONVERSATION WITH
REGARDS TO TWENTY THREE AT
WASHTENAW SO I DO I DON'T HAVE
A LOT OF DETAIL BUT I DO KNOW
THAT THAT AREA IS OWNED BY DOT
AND RIGHT NOW MTA IS
INVESTIGATING REWORKING THAT
ENTIRE AREA THE ON AND OFF
RAMPS AND REPLACING THE BRIDGE
AND ALL OF THAT AND SO THOSE
CONVERSATIONS WILL BE
HAPPENING.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THEY'RE THEY
ARE NOT HAVING PUBLIC
INVOLVEMENT BUT THAT PARTICULAR
AREA TO MY KNOWLEDGE IS NOT
UNDER THE CITY'S PURVIEW
BECAUSE IT IS AN AREA SO WE
SHOULD PROBABLY KEEP OUR HEAD
TO THE GROUND IN TERMS
OF LISTENING FOR WHEN THOSE
ENGAGEMENTS ARE COMING UP SO
THAT WE CAN LEND OUR VOICE TO
THE DISABILITY TO THE
DISABILITY PART OF IT.
AND I AGREE WHOLEHEARTEDLY
THERE IS NO WAY IN HECK I WOULD
EVER WALK DOWNWASH AND CROSS
ALL OF THOSE DIFFERENT ON AND
OFF RAMPS THERE THE RIGHT
ROSARITA THERE IS NO CLEAR
DIRECTION AND SIGNAGE THAT SAYS
OH THIS IS FOR THE PEDESTRIAN
STOP OR THIS IS FOR TRAFFIC TO
STOP.
SO IT MAKES IT VERY HAZARDOUS.
SO I'M HOPING THAT THAT IS ALL
GOING TO BE CORRECTED UNDER
WHATEVER THEIR NEW PLAN IS.
THANK YOU.
THOSE ARE THOSE THAT IF YOU
HEAR THAT SAY I'M ADVENTUROUS
THAT I WOULDN'T DO THAT EITHER
.
BUT DID YOU HEAR DID YOU ALSO
SEE THAT SO I SHOULD HAVE
MENTIONED IT EARLIER THAT IT
SEEMS THAT THAT IS ADDRESS YOUR
THE ISSUE OF THE OFFRAMP DOWN
THERE BY A NINETY FOUR DOWN
THERE BY AND AND I WAS SAYING
THAT THAT ISSUE THAT THAT
SUPPOSEDLY ADDRESSED YOUR ISSUE
AND THAT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
WORKING ON THAT.
>> SO WHAT I DID WAS IS THE
PERSON WHO CAME TO US WITH THAT
CONCERN, MR. WERNER HE ACTUALLY
WAS ABLE TO HE HE BROUGHT AN
ISSUE TO THE PIA ABOUT THE
CROSSING THERE AT 94 AND IN OUR
BRAZILIAN ROAD AND THE PC WAS
BEGINNING WORK ON IT AND THEN
HE WAS ABLE TO SELF ADVOCATE
AND IS WORKING ON EXTENDING THE
LENGTH OF TIME BUT ALSO MAKING
THE LIGHT STAY RED AND GIVING A
LEAD TIME TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
CROSSING CURRENTLY WHAT HAPPENS
IS I THINK YOU ONLY HAVE LIKE
TEN SECONDS TO CROSS THAT
THAT
LITTLE AREA THAT IS THE
PROBLEM.
>> SO IT IS BEING WORKED ON AND
THAT WAS TAKEN CARE OF BY THE
PERSON WHO MADE THE COMPLAINT
THEMSELVES.
>> BUT IT IS AWARE I'M GLAD
THEY JUMPED ON IT SO FAST.
BUT MY EXPERIENCE THAT THEY
JUMP THINGS SO QUICKLY BUT
THERE IS THAT YEAH THERE WAS
DEFINITELY A POSITIVE THING FOR
OUR COMMUNITY.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU EVERYONE.
I'M SO SORRY.
I DON'T MEAN TO CUT THIS OFF
BUT WE DO HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD
IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS THE COMMISSIONERS
HAVE, I ENCOURAGE THEM TO SEND
THOSE QUESTIONS ALONG TO
COMMISSIONER GULER SO THAT HE
CAN THEN PRESENT THOSE
QUESTIONS TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION.
>> BUT AT THIS TIME I'D LIKE TO
TO MOVE US FORWARD HERE.
MOVING ON.
WE NOW HAVE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS MEETING
UPDATE WITH COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON.
SO I HAVE TO APOLOGIZE.
I WAS UNABLE TO ATTEND A
MEETING DUE TO A DISABILITY
RELATED SCHEDULE CONFLICT.
SO I CONTACTED THE CHAIR TO
SHARE SLIDES WITH ME SO THAT I
CAN REPORT TO THIS BODY.
THE SLIDES HAVE NOT YET BEEN
SHARED.
I CAN EITHER DO THAT AT OUR
NEXT MEETING OR I CAN SUMMARIZE
BY EMAIL WHICHEVER THE
COMMISSIONER WOULD PREFER.
I BELIEVE KATHLEEN ALSO RAISED
HER KENNEDY YEAH I KNEW THAT
I'M ANSWERING MATTHEW I'M SORRY
I WAS IN ATTENDANCE AT THE
MEETING AND I REACHED OUT TO
HEATHER WHO IS THE THE LIAISON
WITH A COUNSELOR.
SO FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS AND
ATTACHED TO OUR AGENDA TODAY IS
THE ACTUAL MINUTES FROM THAT
MEETING AND THEN SHE'S GOING TO
CONTINUE TO REACH OUT TO
KENNEDY EVERY MONTH AND SEND
THE UPDATED MEETING.
SO THE MEETING MINUTES SO THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE TO TAKE CARE
OF THAT PIECE YOURSELF.
>> GREAT.
WOW, THAT'S GREAT.
I'M HAPPY TO SUMMARIZE ON THIS
THAT I'M PROUD OF THAT I PLAN
TO BE PRESENT IN THE FUTURE BUT
THAT'S GREAT TO KNOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO
KATHLEEN TO MATTHEW AND KENNEDY
FOR ALL OF YOUR ASSISTANCE ON
THAT.
DEFINITELY APPRECIATE IT.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO THE REPORTS FOR
WITH THE DIRECTOR
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY WITH
LAURA OR TO LAURA ON THIS
AFTERNOON.
LAURA IS NOT HERE, HOWEVER
TRACY IS HERE TO TRACY, IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO REPORT ON THIS
SECTION YOU
WELL, I KNOW I'M
UNMUTED BUT I TRIED TO PULL MY
VIDEO.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
ACTUALLY I WAS NOT INFORMED
THAT I WOULD BE REPORTING
ANYTHING FROM THE DCI OFFICE
TODAY SO MY APOLOGIES FOR BEING
UNPREPARED FOR THAT.
>> NO, NO, NO PROBLEM.
>> NO GREAT WAY TO START COMING
TO THE COMMISSION, RIGHT?
NO, NO, NO, NO THAT'S OK.
DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT AND I WILL
REACH OUT TO TOMORROW TO SEE IF
THERE'S ANY ADDITIONAL THINGS
THAT THE COMMISSION SHOULD BE
AWARE OF .
WHAT I'D ALSO LIKE TO STATE FOR
THE RECORD IS THAT IF THE
DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY WILL NOT BE ATTENDING
OUR MEETING THAT THEY SEND ANY
INFORMATION AND OR REPORT TO
KENNEDY AND OR MYSELF AHEAD
OF TIME AND THEN WE CAN
POSSIBLY REPORT THAT
INFORMATION FOR THEM IN THE
FUTURE.
BUT NO WORRIES.
THANK YOU, TRACY, FOR YOUR
COMMENTS.
THANK YOU TO LAURA FOR BEING A
LOYAL SUPPORTER AND COLLEAGUE
OF THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE
FORWARD TO THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH KENNEDY ABOUT THAT
.
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT MY
CAMERA IS ON TO YOUR CONTINI AT
THIS TIME.
NO MAJOR UPDATES DAILY UPDATE
THAT I DO HAVE TO SHARE IS
POLICE CHIEF AMY MEZZA HAS
RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC AND HAS
ANNOUNCED HER RETIREMENT FROM
THE ANN ARBOR PD AND TODAY WAS
THE COFFEE HOUR FOR HER
RETIREMENT AND TO ACKNOWLEDGE
HER AND HER TWENTY FIVE YEARS
OF SERVICE WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR POLICE CHIEF AMY WALTER
WILL BE RETIRING AT THE END
OF THIS MONTH FROM THE NRA.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE SEARCH FOR
THE POLICE CHIEF IS STILL
OCCURRING IN THE MEANTIME THERE
IS A NEW INTERIM POLICE CHIEF
PATRICK MACUR SAYING HIS LAST
NAME RIGHT WILL BE THE ACTING
INTERIM POLICE CHIEF ONCE
POLICE CHIEF AMY METTER AND HER
OPPONENT HERE WITH THE CITY.
AND SO THAT IS THE ONLY UPDATE
THAT I HAVE QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
THIS IS THAT I HAVE ONE QUICK
QUESTION.
IF THERE ARE ANY FUTURE
RETIREMENTS OR CROPPY HOURS
WITHIN THE CITY WITH
INDIVIDUALS THAT HAVE WORKED
DIRECTLY WITH KODAK, CAN I
REQUEST THE CITY FORWARDED THAT
TO US?
YES.
SO IF IF THERE ARE ANY MORE
RETIREMENTS OR ANY MORE
COMMUNICATIONS ABOUT THOSE
RETIRING THE INDIVIDUALS HAVE
WORKED WITH THE COMMISSION.
I AM HAPPY TO FOR THAT TO THE
COMMISSION SO THE COMMISSION
CAN ATTEND.
>> THANK YOU.
I DO APPRECIATE IT AND TO TO
AMY MR. WHO HAS DONE A
WONDERFUL JOB DEFINITELY BEEN
SUPPORTIVE OF US IN OUR EFFORTS
AND ALSO MAKING SURE THAT
OFFICERS HAVE DISABILITY
RESOURCE CARDS ON THEIR ROUTES,
UNDERSTAND THE IMPORTANCE
TRAINING AND MAKING SURE THAT
THEY ARE DEALING WITH RESIDENTS
AND INDIVIDUALS THAT THEY
ENCOUNTER ON A FAIR AND
EQUITABLE MANNER.
I WISH THEM ALL THE BEST AND
AGAIN JUST ECHO KENNEDY'S
COMMENTS OF THE WONDERFUL
SERVICE THAT THEY HAVE DONE AND
I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT AS THESE
ARE THE CANDIDATES IN COME IN
FOR A NEW POLICE CHIEF THAT THE
CITY WILL DO THE BEST JOB THAT
THEY CAN TO SELECT THE BEST
CANDIDATE ON RIGHT WITH THAT I
MOVED OUT.
I MOVE ON TO THE CHAIR REPORT.
I DO APOLOGIZE.
IT IS FLASHING TO ME THAT MY
CONNECTION IS UNSTABLE.
MY IF MY AUDIO DOES CUT OUT I
DO APOLOGIZE FOR MY CHAIR
REPORT THE FIRST THING I WANTED
TO REPORT WAS A WELCOME AND
CONGRATULATIONS AS IT WAS
MENTIONED A LITTLE BIT EARLIER,
WE HAVE TWO COMMISSIONERS, NEW
COMMISSIONERS JOINING US TODAY
FOR THEIR FIRST MEETING.
WE HAVE THIS LINA CHAMBERS
JOINING US AND MR. ROB PACARD.
I WANT TO SAY TO BOTH OF THEM
WELCOME AND I'M VERY, VERY
EXCITED AND ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
THE GREAT ASSETS THAT THEY CAN
BE TO OUR COMMISSION AND TO
HELP SUPPORT OUR MISSION
OF MAKING OUR CITY INCLUSIVE
AND EQUITABLE FOR ALL.
SO TO BOTH OF YOU,
CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR
APPOINTMENTS AND I AM EXTREMELY
EXCITED TO WELCOME YOU AND I
JUST WANT TO ENCOURAGE BOTH
OF YOU THAT NOW THAT YOU ARE
APPOINTED COMMISSIONERS, PLEASE
FEEL FREE AT ANY TIME TO REACH
OUT TO MYSELF AND OR KENNEDY
FOR ANYTHING THAT YOU NEED
GOING FORWARD AS FAR AS THE
COMMISSION IS CONCERNED AND
WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
SURE.
>> YOUR POSITIVE ATTITUDE
ABSOLUTELY.
WELL AND THEN ALSO I AM SO
EXCITED TO REPORT I HAD SENT AN
INTRODUCTORY EMAIL EARLIER WITH
THE EXCITING NEWS OF OUR IN OUR
VERSITY ACCESSIBLY COORDINATOR
AND I AM OVERJOYED THAT TRACY
BIRD HAS BEEN NAMED TO THAT
POSITION AND ALSO JOINING US ON
THE MEETING THIS AFTERNOON.
I HAVE TO SAY THAT I AM JUST
CANNOT SAY ENOUGH ABOUT POLICA
AND HER COMMITMENT IN MAKING
SURE THAT INDIVIDUALS ARE
TREATED FAIRLY AND EQUITABLY
BUT THEN ALSO MAKING SURE THAT
THEY ARE TREATED WITH A SMILE
AND WITH THE POSITIVE DEMEANOR.
PERSONALLY I CAN SAY THAT I
THINK TRACY IS A GREAT FIT FOR
THIS HISTORY MAKING POSITION AS
THIS POSITION IS NEW AND HAS
NEVER BEEN A PART OF THE CITY
BEFORE.
SO I ALSO WANT TO COMMEND OUR
ENTIRE COMMISSION FOR THEIR
EFFORTS IN HELPING WITH
CRAFTING THE ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR POSITION WITH THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR, ALSO WITH
THE COMMISSION'S EFFORTS AND
MAKING SURE THAT THEY ARE
CONSISTENT ABOUT ADVOCATING FOR
THIS POSITION IT BE SOMETHING
THAT HAPPENS.
AND THEN LASTLY, I'D LIKE TO
THANK LAURA AUTOR AGAIN THE
DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY FOR THEIR EFFORTS IN
HELPING US TO MAKE THE CITY
ACCESSIBLE COORDINATOR POSITION
AREALITY.
SO WITH THAT WELCOME TO TRACY
BYRD AND TRACY.
THE FLOOR IS YOURS IF YOU'D
LIKE TO SAY A FEW WORDS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL OF YOU FOR WHAT
FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU FOR
THAT VERY LOVELY EMAIL THAT YOU
SENT OUT.
I KNEW IT WAS COMING THIS
EVENING SO I WANTED TO THANK
YOU PUBLICLY FOR YOUR KIND
WORDS AND FOR YOUR SUPPORT
OF THIS POSITION AND I DO LOOK
VERY FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
ALL OF YOU.
I HAVE STARTED REACHING OUT IN
THE COMMUNITY
ALREADY.
THIS IS THE THIS IS MY THIRD
WEEK.
YESTERDAY WAS THE START OF MY
THIRD WEEK HERE.
SO I HAVE REACHED OUT TO A FEW
DIFFERENT ORGANIZATIONS AND
INDIVIDUALS AND I IT IS MY PLAN
TO TO WORK VERY CLOSELY WITH
YOU ALL AND MAYBE WITH A ALSO
WITHIN DIFFERENT ORGANIZATIONS
THAT YOU WORK WITH TOO.
SO I I'M VERY EXCITED TO BE A
PART OF THIS AND TO BE
PARTNERING WITH YOU.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR INVITING ME THIS
EVENING.
>> I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO WELCOME
TRACY AND I WAS I WAS WAITING
FOR A MONTH TO TELL HER THAT,
YOU KNOW, GET OUT OF WORK WITH
ME BECAUSE WE HAVE A TEAM WITH
EACH OTHER ON OCCASION WHEN I
GO THROUGH WHEN I USED TO GO TO
BLAKE AND I STILL GET TO WORK
WITH ME AND I I'LL BE VERY,
VERY HAPPY TO WORK WITH YOU,
TRACY.
I'M VERY HAPPY TO SEE THAT YOUR
POSITION IS IS NOT ONLY WELL
NEEDED BUT I THINK YOU'LL DO A
VERY GOOD JOB.
>> WELL, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONFIDENCE
IN ME ZACH.
>> I WAS READING YOUR GREAT
EMAIL INTRODUCING TRACY BYRD TO
US AT THIS MORNING'S HOUSING
SUMMIT WHEN I LOOKED UP AND
THERE WAS TRACY BYRD HERSELF
RIGHT IN FRONT I WAS JUST
READING THAT AND I'VE SPOKEN
WITH AS YOU KNOW, TRACY WITH A
RIDE AND THANK YOU AND I
APPRECIATE HAVING YOU ON GREAT
ED. THANK YOU.
WONDERFUL.
AND YOU'RE QUITE WELCOME.
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, I HAVE A
QUESTION COMMENT MORE OF A
COMMENT I WELCOME WE WORKED
REALLY HARD TO GET THIS
POSITION AND SO EXCITING THE
SEAT FILLED BY SUCH A CAPABLE
INDIVIDUAL LOOKING FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH YOU LIKEWISE.
>> WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
AND MATTHEW, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ABSOLUTELY VERY EXCITING.
VERY EXCITING.
I KNOW WE'RE GOING DOWN THE
LINE HERE.
SO THE COUNCIL MEMBER EDWYN
ALREADY DID THEIR UPDATE SO I'M
GOING TO GO AHEAD AND MOVE
FORWARD TO OLD BUSINESS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS
TODAY?
NO OLD BUSINESS LISTED ON THE
AGENDA AT THIS TIME.
OK, ANY NEW BUSINESS TO DISCUSS
MISSIONER MOSADDEQ YEAH.
>> OH, YOU'RE CAPLING.
I SURE AM SORRY ABOUT SO
EARLIER COUNCILWOMAN EDWARD WAS
TALKING ABOUT THE THE SUMMIT
THAT WAS THIS MORNING WITH
REGARDS TO HOUSING AND ONE
OF THE ISSUES THAT CAME UP THAT
I DISCUSSED WAS HOW WE SILOW
OUR INFORMATION HERE WITHIN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND IT GOT ME
LOOKING AT OUR OUR WEB PAGE
WHERE WE LIST OUR RESOURCES.
WE HAVE SATIRIZED SOURCES AND
WE HAVE OTHER RESOURCES THAT
ARE LISTED AND I NOTICED THAT
WE DO NOT HAVE THINGS LIKE FAIR
HOUSING.
THE INTERIM HOUSING COMMISSION
IS THERE BUT FAIR HOUSING IS
THERE.
HOK IS NOT THERE.
SAFE HOUSE IS NOT THERE AND SO
I'M THINKING AND I'M WONDERING
IF WE FIND IT MIGHT FIND IT
VALUABLE TO TAKE A SECOND LOOK
AT THOSE RESOURCES EITHER IN
COMMITTEE OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT TO MAKE SURE THAT ALL THE
RESOURCES THAT WE CAN THINK
OF ARE AVAILABLE BECAUSE THE
RESOURCES THERE THAT ARE THERE
ARE ABSOLUTELY WONDERFUL BUT
PEOPLE WHO ARE DISABLED ALSO
SUFFER DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
PEOPLE WHO ARE DISABLED
FREQUENTLY HAVE ISSUES WITH
FAIR HOUSING, PEOPLE WHO ARE
DISABLED ARE FREQUENTLY
HOMELESS AND NEED THE BENEFIT
OF HOK AND SO I JUST WANTED TO
RAISE IT TO THE COMMISSION THAT
IF IF YOU GUYS WOULD FIND THAT
VALUABLE THAT MAYBE WE SHOULD
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT IS
CURRENTLY ON OUR WEBSITE AND
HOW WE CAN ENHANCE THAT'S
THAT'S A GREAT POINT.
KATHLEEN KENNEDY, YOU HAD A
COMMENT AND IT IS TO
COMMISSIONER BIOTECH'S
CONCERNED AS THE PORTLAND
COMMISSION OFFICE MANAGER FOR
KODAI I AM ALSO THE KIND
OF LIKE WOULD YOU SAY
GATEKEEPER OF THE COMMISSION'S
WEBSITE AND I'M THE ONE WHO
KIND OF EDITS AND CHANGES AND
UPDATES THE WEBSITE.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE ANY
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON
RESOURCES TO BE PROVIDED ON THE
WEBSITE, I'M HAPPY TO IMPLEMENT
THEM ON THERE AND PUT THEM ON
THERE WHETHER IT BE A LINK OR
ANY INFORMATION THAT THE
COMMISSION SEES FIT TO GO ON
THE WEBSITE FOR OTHERS TO BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE THEM WITH
RESOURCES, ADDITIONAL SERVICES
THAT'S WONDERFUL.
>> I THE REASON I'M BRINGING IT
UP HERE TO THE COMMISSION IS I
DON'T FEEL THAT ANY ONE PERSON
LIKE MYSELF SHOULD TO BE ABLE
TO COME TO YOU AND SAY I WANT
THIS ON THE WEBSITE THAT'S I
WANTED THE COMMISSION TO
EXPLORE WHAT IS ALREADY THERE
AND WHAT THEY FEEL MIGHT BE
VALUABLE TO ADD.
AND THEN THAT WAY WE AS A BODY
COULD INFORM YOU VERSUS JUST ME
SAYING I THINK IT NEEDS TO BE
THERE BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
THAT THEY ARE SO SO YEAH, THE
COMMISSION WOULD LIKE TO REVIEW
THE WEBSITE AND SCHEDULE A
MEETING.
I'M HAPPY TO DO SO.
ANY COMMISSIONERS WHO WOULD
LIKE TO TAKE PART IN REVIEWING
THEM FOR ACTION ON THE WEBSITE
AND KIND
OF I CAN'T HEAR YOU
ANYMORE KENNEDY YEAH.
KENNEDY I THINK YOU CUT OUT
THEIR OOPS KENNEDY I THINK
YOU'RE HAVING SOME CONNECTIVITY
.
IT'S A BUSY TIME OF DAY.
LET US KNOW IF YOU'RE GOOD TO
GO.
BUT BUT I THINK THAT WOULD BE
FINE.
YOU KNOW, HOW DO YOU ALL FEEL
IF YOU KNOW WE SET A TIME TO
MEET WITH WITH KENNEDY AND THEN
WE CAN SEND ALL OF OUR
SUGGESTIONS TO TO HER SO THAT
WE CAN, YOU KNOW, HAVE A
MEETING AND ADDRESS ALL
OF THEM.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, WE WANT OUR
SITE TO BE ACCESSIBLE.
WE WANT IT TO BE UP TO DATE AND
WE WANT VIEWERS TO TO BE ABLE
TO ACCESS IT.
>> I I HAVE A SUGGESTION THAT
WE MAKE A COUPLE OF THAT WE
HAVE MAYBE NOT A COMMITTEE
MEETING BUT A SORT OF A MEETING
AND GET TOGETHER AND POOL OUR
RESOURCES BECAUSE SOME SOME
PEOPLE MAY SOME OF US MAY HAVE
RESOURCES THAT OTHERS DON'T
HAVE AND THAT WE WORK ON THAT
AND THEN WE WE PUT A LIST OF OF
THE RESOURCES THAT COULD BE
UPDATED ON THEIR AND THAT WAY
WHEN WE JUST PUT THEM ALL ON
THERE AND GET IT DONE GET IT
DONE IN ONE ONE SWOOP PRETTY
MUCH YEAH.
I MEAN THAT COULD DEFINITELY BE
YOU KNOW, AN OPTION.
I THINK MEETING WITH KENNEDY
AND DOING THAT, YOU KNOW COULD
BE BENEFICIAL.
I AGREE WITH YOU LARRY.
COMMISSIONER REEQUIP, YOU HAD A
QUESTION IS THERE SOMETHING
THAT WE HAVE TO DO A MOTION
WITH BECAUSE I MEAN I AGREE AND
I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU,
COMMISSIONER MOSAD FOR BRINGING
THAT UP, ESPECIALLY THE PART
ABOUT DENHA ABOUT EXPERIENCING
HOW PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
EXPERIENCE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AS
WELL.
>> AND THEN FOR YEAH, I MEAN
WAS THE SUGGESTION LIKE JUST A
MEETING OR WAS IT A I OF LIKE
LIKE A SPREADSHEET DENHA
MEETING?
>> I WAS SO SO JUST TO CLARIFY,
COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE, WHAT I
THINK YOU KNOW SHOULD BE DONE
IS YOU KNOW, WE COMPILE SOME
SUGGESTIONS AND THEN WE WE SET
UP A TIME TO MEET WITH KENNEDY
TO BE ABLE TO GO THROUGH THOSE
SUGGESTIONS TO TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE SURE THAT OUR OUR WEBSITE
IS, YOU KNOW, AS ACCESSIBLE AS
POSSIBLE.
NOW HOW WE DO THAT I MEAN I'M
OPEN TO SUGGESTION WHETHER IT'S
A GOOGLE DOC AND YOU KNOW, WE
ALL JUST INPUT SOME IDEAS OR
WHETHER YOU KNOW, AT THE
MEETING WE BRAINSTORM THOSE
IDEAS WITH KENNEDY, YOU KNOW,
EITHER TO ME I THINK IS
SUFFICIENT.
I THINK THE KEY IS YOU ME AGAIN
MAKING SURE THAT OUR WEBSITE IS
ACCESSIBLE AS POSSIBLE.
I MEAN AS FAR AS I KNOW, NO,
THE CITY IS QUOTE UNQUOTE
REDONE THEIR WEBSITE.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
OUR WEBSITE OR YOU LOOK AT THE
CITY'S WEBSITE IS A COMPLETELY
UNIVERSALLY ACCESSIBLE YOU
KNOW, OUR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
BLIND, ARE THEY ABLE TO ACCESS
OUR WEBSITE EFFICIENTLY?
ARE OTHERS WHO HAVE OTHER
DISABILITIES?
ARE THEY ABLE TO ACCESS OUR
WEBSITE EFFICIENTLY AND CAN
THEY NAVIGATE IT?
YOU KNOW, I THINK THOSE ARE
SOME VERY IMPORTANT QUESTIONS
IN ADDITION TO THE RESOURCES
THAT COMMISSIONER MOSAICA
BROUGHT UP.
SO I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
WE HAVE YOU KNOW, AS MANY
RESOURCES ORGANIZED AS POSSIBLE
SO THAT IF INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES ARE LOOKING FOR
DIFFERENT RESOURCES SUCH AS THE
ONES THAT COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ
ALLUDED TO, THEY CAN HAVE
ACCESS TO IT.
BUT I ALSO THINK ON A LARGER
SCALE POINT THAT'S ALSO MOST
MORE IMPORTANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT OUR WEBSITE AS WELL AS THE
THE CITY'S WEB INFRASTRUCTURE
IS AS IS EXCUSE ME AS
ACCESSIBLE AS POSSIBLE.
AND SO I ALSO ENCOURAGE US TO
NOT ONLY NOTE RESOURCES THAT WE
THINK SHOULD BE INCLUDED ON OUR
DISABILITY RESOURCE PAGE BUT
ALSO TALK ABOUT SOME
ACCESSIBILITY OPTIONS THAT NEED
TO BE IMPROVED ON OUR WEBSITE
AS WELL AS POSSIBLY IN THE CITY
SO THAT THOSE CAN BE PUT FORTH
TO THE CITY AND THEY CAN BE
MADE AWARE OF THOSE
AS FAR AS
THE PROCESS TO DO THAT YOU I
DON'T THINK THERE NEEDS TO BE A
MOTION TO DO THAT OF ANY KIND.
COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE I THINK
MAINLY IT'S JUST ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, MEETING AND STARTING TO
YOU KNOW, EITHER FORM THAT
GOOGLE OR YOU KNOW, COMING TO
THE CONCLUSION OF HOW WE'RE
GOING TO START IT AND THEN SET
UP THAT MEETING WITH KENNEDY.
I WOULD SUGGEST FURTHER
DISCUSSION NEXT MONTH.
I WOULD SUGGEST LEAVING SOME
TIME FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION AND
PEOPLE CAN MAKE THEIR WORK
CHOICES AND IDEAS TO THE
MEETING AND IF THERE SEEMS TO
BE A LOT MORE THAN WE COULD
FORM SOME KIND OF TEMPORARY
SUBCOMMITTEE TO TAKE CARE OF IT
,I THINK WE COULD PROBABLY DO
IT WITHIN 15, 20 MINUTES.
WE CAN SET UP THE FRAMEWORK IN
FOR WHATEVER WE'RE GOING TO DO
IN THE NEXT IN THE NEXT
MEETING.
SO I WOULD I WOULD BE IN FAVOR
OF JUST SETTING AGENDA TIME
NEXT MONTH TO TO INTRODUCING
THE NEW RESOURCES AND
ADDRESSING THIS ISSUE.
OK, OK.
I'M DEFINITELY COMFORTABLE WITH
DOING THAT AS WELL AND I THINK
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA LARRY.
I THINK YOU KNOW, BEING ABLE TO
PUT YOU KNOW, ADDITIONS TO THE
WEBSITE IN TERMS OF RESOURCES
BUT THEN ALSO ADDRESSING
EXCESSIVE ABILITY I THINK YEAH.
THAT'S A GREAT A GREAT IDEA I
KENNEDY, WELCOME BACK.
YOU HAD YOUR HAND UP.
YES.
I AM SO SORRY ABOUT THAT
EVERYONE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED HERE
AT THE CITY BUT THE INTERNET
WAS JUST DOWN FOR A COUPLE
OF MINUTES SO I DO APOLOGIZE
ABOUT THAT.
BUT I'M HERE AND I KNOW THE
RECORDING I WAS NOT ABLE TO
HEAR THE CONVERSATION BUT I'M
SURE CAN WE WATCHED AND CATCH
UP.
I WANT TO LET YOU ALL KNOW THAT
I'M BACK.
THANK YOU AGAIN TODAY.
AND JUST TO QUICKLY SUMMARIZE,
WE WERE JUST TALKING ABOUT THE
WEBSITE MEETING WITH YOU TO
DISCUSS RESOURCES THAT WE THINK
SHOULD BE ON THE WEBSITE
ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE KODAI
WEBSITE AS WELL AS THE CITY WEB
INFRASTRUCTURE ENTIRELY IN THE
GO AHEAD.
YEP.
SO I'M OPEN TO ANY IDEAS YOU
ALL HAVE FOR THE WEBSITE.
TRACY, IF YOU ALSO WOULD LIKE
TO HELP AND ASSIST WITH THE
WEBSITE AS WELL I'M HAPPY TO
BRING YOU INTO THE MEETING AS
WELL.
WE GOT WE ALWAYS LOVE THE
ASSISTANCE SO IF YOU GUYS WOULD
LIKE I CAN SEND OUT AN EMAIL TO
THE COMMISSION.
I'M JUST GOING OVER YOU KNOW,
IN HOPES OF SCHEDULING A
MEETING FOR EVERYONE TO MEET IF
EVERYONE WOULD PREFER TO MEET
AND ZOOM ON ZOOM I'M HAPPY TO
SCHEDULE A MEETING SO WE ARE
ABLE TO COME TOGETHER AND
DISCUSS THE BEST ATTRIBUTES AND
RESOURCES FOR THE WEBSITE.
I'M COMMISSIONER BOZAK.
>> I DO HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT
THE OPEN MEETINGS.
IF WE HAVE A MEETING AND
THERE'S MORE AND A QUORUM
THERE, HOW WOULD THAT HOW WOULD
THAT WORK?
>> I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE DOING EVERYTHING
LEGALLY RIGHT SO AS IT PERTAINS
TO COMMISSION BUSINESS, IF YOU
WOULD LIKE THIS TO FALL UNDER
COMMISSION BUSINESS THEN YES,
THERE IS THE OPEN MEETING AND
WE WILL HAVE TO DO LIKE A
SPECIAL MEETING THAT CAN BE
DONE.
I BELIEVE THAT TO BE IN PERSON
I WOULD HAVE TO DOUBLE CHECK
BUT LIKE I SAID IT WAS LIKE IF
YOU LIKE TO CLASSIFY IT AS A
BUSINESS THEN YES BECAUSE THE
OPEN MEETINGS ACT IT WOULD HAVE
TO HAVE QUORUM AND BE THANK YOU
FOR ANSWERING.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU KENNEDY.
I THINK THAT'S THE BEST IDEA
FOLKS IF WE CAN SET A MEETING
WITH KENNEDY AND BRAINSTORM YOU
KNOW OUR IDEAS INTO A DOCUMENT
I THINK THAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL AND ABSOLUTELY I
AGREE WITH YOUR POINT KENNEDY
IF WE CAN INCLUDE OUR
ACCESSIBILITY COORDINATOR MISS
TRACY BYRD AND THAT
CONVERSATION OF OUR WEBSITE,
WHAT NEEDS TO BE INCLUDED IN
TERMS OF RESOURCES AND
ACCESSIBILITY ON THE KODAI PAGE
AS WELL AS THE ENTIRE CITY WEB
INFRASTRUCTURE TO MAKE SURE
THAT IT'S ACCESSIBLE POSSIBLE?
>> I THINK THAT CAN BE A VERY
PRODUCTIVE MEETING
.
>> OK, YEAH SORRY I WAS GOING
TO SAY ANYTHING ELSE FOR NEW
BUSINESS?
YES.
YES, YES.
THERE'S ONE THING WE HAVEN'T
MENTIONED.
I THINK WE NEED TO VOTE ON
WHETHER TO SEND CANDIDATE
E-MAIL THROUGH.
YEAH, WE CAN WE CAN DO THAT.
I WAS I WAS YOU KNOW, GOING TO
SEE IF WE WANTED TO DO THAT
TODAY OR IF WE WANTED TO DO
THAT PUT THAT ON AN AGENDA ITEM
FOR NEXT MONTH.
BUT OUR LOT I WOULD DO THE
IMPOSSIBLE.
SURE.
OK, WELL SO ARE YOU MAKING A
MOTION, LARRY TO I I MOVE THAT
WE VOTE ON SENDING CANDIDATE
EMAIL AND IF AT WHY AM I
TWISTED WORDS HER APPLICATION
THROUGH THE CITY COUNCIL.
>> WELL HERE'S THE THING THOUGH
WE CAN'T VOTE ON I'M ABOUT TO
LOG OUT.
I'LL JUST LEAVE THE MEETING NOW
OK.
OK BYE.
THANK YOU.
>> SO NOW LARRY BECAUSE THE
CANDIDATE IS OFFLINE NOW WE CAN
SORT OF WELL I MADE THE MOTION
SO NOW IT COULD BE SECONDED.
YES.
OK, IS THERE A SECOND MAYBE A
SECOND.
OK KATHLEEN SECONDS.
OK I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF VOTING
IN CANDIDATES MARROW FOR HER
APPLICATION TO BE APPROVED BY
THE COMMISSION AND MOVED ON TO
CITY COUNCIL FOR APPROVAL
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I I I
I OK WONDERFUL THANK YOU.
AND THE REASON I OH GO AHEAD GO
AHEAD.
>> I JUST GET SOMETHING SO THAT
THE REASON I BROUGHT THAT UP IS
BECAUSE I FIGURED THAT INSTEAD
OF WAITING UNTIL NEXT MONTH
WHEN A CANDIDATE COMES THROUGH
VOTING ON THAT CANDIDATE THE
INFORMATION THAT IDEA OF THE
CANDIDATE BEING THERE SEEING
THE CANDIDATE TALKING TO THE
CANDIDATE IS STILL FRESH IN
ONE'S MIND AND IF YOU WAIT TILL
NEXT MONTH IT'S NOT AS FRESH IN
YOUR MIND AND THAT'S HOW WE
USED TO DO IT AND THAT'S HOW WE
USED TO DO IT.
>> SO LOOK, THANK YOU, LARRY.
I DO APPRECIATE IT,
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
>> IT'S A QUESTION REALLY
PROCEDURE ABOUT MAYBE FOLLOWING
UP ON SOMETHING KATHLEEN
BROUGHT UP AT THE BEGINNING
WHICH IS TO SAY THAT THIS IS
ALL PUBLIC RECORD.
SO THIS VOTE IS COMPLETELY
OPEN.
IS THAT THE WAY THIS IS
INTENDED TO PLAY OUT?
AGAIN, THE VOTE WAS UNANIMOUS.
THIS CANDIDATE THERE'S
ABSOLUTELY NO QUESTION ABOUT
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT THE
LOGISTICS AND THE PROTOCOL
OF VOTING IN THIS CONTEXT.
>> IF SOMEBODY HAS SAID I'M I
CAN'T ANSWER THAT QUESTION FOR
YOU SO BECAUSE THE COMMISSION
MEETS VIRTUALLY INSTEAD
OF BEING REQUIRED TO MEET IN
PERSON ON BOATS LIKE THIS CAN
BE MADE.
YEAH, YES.
I
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, I JUST
DIDN'T UNDERSTAND THE RESPONSE
THAT YOU GAVE KENNEDY.
>> I WAS SAYING SO BECAUSE THIS
COMMISSION IS NOT REQUIRED TO
MEET IN PERSON AND THE
COMMISSION MEETS VIRTUALLY AND
THIS IS A COMMISSION MEETING
AND YOU ALL ARE HANDLING
COMMISSION BUSINESS.
SO COMMISSION BUSINESS AS IN
LIKE VOTING FOR NEW
COMMISSIONERS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT IS ALLOWED.
>> DOES THAT CLARIFY YOUR
QUESTION?
I THINK IT WAS THE PUBLIC
NATURE THAT I FIND A LITTLE BIT
AWKWARD AT IN THIS CASE BUT
PERHAPS IN ANOTHER CASE AND I'M
JUST TRYING TO REMEMBER HOW IT
WAS DONE IN PERSON, OK, WHEN I
COULD DO IT I CAN LOOK INTO IT
AND SEND YOU A FILE.
>> NO, I'LL LET YOU KNOW OF THE
HISTORY OF THE COMMISSION BUT
OTHER THINGS SINCE 2011 AND
WHEN I WAS VOTED IN I WAS THERE
I WAS I WAS STILL IN THE
AUDIENCE.
I WAS THERE IN THE AUDIENCE
SEAT AND I JUST AFTER I WAS
VOTED IN I MOVED UP TO THE
KITCHEN TABLE AS WELL NOT AFTER
I WAS VOTED IN BUT AS SOON AS
MY APPLICATION CAME IN I WAS
THERE TO SEE WHAT THE
COMMISSION VOTE WAS BECAUSE
LIKE COMMISSIONER SOLOMON SAID
IT PERSONALLY IT REALLY DOESN'T
MAKE ANY ANY ANY SENSE EITHER
WAY BECAUSE YOU CAN LOOK AND
SEE IF YOU HAD ISSUES YOU COULD
LOOK INTO WHO VOTED FOR IT, WHO
DIDN'T ANYWAY PALMITATE THING
AFTERWARDS.
SO I NEVER I MEAN IT'S NOT A
STRICT PROCEDURAL THING TO HAVE
SOMEBODY LEAVE THE ROOM OR
WHATEVER SOME CHAIRS HAVE DONE
IT.
SOME HAVE IT.
THERE WAS ALSO IT USED TO ALSO
BE A SECRET A VOTE FOR THE
CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR OF THE
COMMISSION
BUT THAT HAS BECOME
LESS SECRET AS WELL.
IT JUST DEPENDS ON I GUESS IT
DEPENDS ON WHO'S IN CHARGE AND
THE BYLAWS DON'T SAY ANYTHING
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT IT EXCEPT
THAT SO MANY COMMISSIONERS ARE
SUPPOSED TO VOTE.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH FOR THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> AND YOU KNOW, COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON, ALTHOUGH GO AHEAD,
LARRY.
>> I'M MOOD I'M KIND OF MUTE.
I GOT SOMEBODY AT MY DOOR OK,
TYPICALLY WHEN YOU KNOW WHEN
I'VE BEEN ON THE ON THE
COMMISSION OF CANDIDATES WERE
NOT PRESENT AND IT WAS KIND
OF A SOMETHING THAT WAS DONE
NOT NECESSARILY IN FRONT OF THE
CANDIDATE WHEN I WAS APPOINTED
I DO NOT I DO NOT RECALL BEING
PRESENT FOR THAT PARTICULAR
VOTE AND THEN I WAS NOTIFIED
AFTERWARD.
BUT BUT THANK YOU, LARRY, FOR
THAT THAT PERSPECTIVE AND WE'LL
WE'LL CLARIFY AND YOU KNOW,
WE'LL WE'LL GET THE FACTS FOR
EVERYONE.
THANK YOU.
BUT FOR TIME I DO WANT TO MOVE
FORWARD TO COMMUNICATIONS.
KENNEDY DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS AT THIS TIME?
>> NO COMMUNICATION ITEMS ON
THE AGENDA IF COMMISSIONERS DO
HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS AT THIS
TIME THEY MAY ADDRESS THEM.
>> I SEE.
COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE, GO
AHEAD.
OH YEAH.
I JUST FOUND OUT THIS OVER THE
WEEKEND THAT TONIGHT COUNTY
COMMISSION MEETING WHICH YOU'RE
GOING TO FIND AT WASHTENAW DOT
ORG IS GOING TO ADDRESS PART
OF THE HOUSING CRISIS AND WORK
IN WASHTENAW COUNTY AND HOW THE
COUNTY PLANS TO HANDLE IT IN
THE FUTURE.
AND SO IF ANY ONE'S INTERESTED
IT STARTS AT SEVEN O'CLOCK.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
DO APPRECIATE IT.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS AT
THIS TIME?
OK, ALL RIGHTY.
AT THAT POINT AT THIS POINT TOO
IT IS NOW FIVE FORTY FIVE.
IS THERE A MOTION TO ADJOURN?
I MOVE TO ADJOURN OK THAT
SOUNDED SO ENTHUSIASTIC.
>> SORRY.
NO, NO.
IS THERE A SECOND I SAID ROBERT
OH OK.
>> I'LL SECOND IT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU ROB COMMISSIONER
PACARD SECOND ALL IN FAVOR
OF ADJOURNING AT FIVE FORTY
FIVE TODAY ON WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 18TH ON MUTANT'S I I
RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT WELL EVERYONE THIS
MEETING IS ADJOURNED.
I WANT TO THANK YOU ALL VERY
MUCH FOR YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS AND
DISCOURSE TODAY.
I THINK WE BROUGHT UP SOME VERY
,VERY IMPORTANT POINTS.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND I
WILL SEE YOU NEXT MONTH